

===== PDF_PAGE_1 =====
 THE CENTURY OF TÜRKİYE
 EDUCATION MODEL
2O25
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM 
(YEARS 2-3-4-5-6-7-8)
PRIMARY EDUCATION
ENGLISH LANGUAGE

===== PDF_PAGE_2 =====


===== PDF_PAGE_3 =====
3
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
1. THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM 4
1.1. THE BASIC APPROACH AND SPECIFIC AIMS OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM 4
1.2. PRINCIPLES FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM 14
1.3. THE  ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM: THEMES, LEARNING OUTCOMES, AND TIMETABLES 30
1.4. ENGLISH COURSEBOOKS FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION/SCHOOLS- FORM NUMBERS AND BOOK SIZES 37
1.5. ENGLISH COURSEBOOKS FOR LOWER SECONDARY EDUCATION/SCHOOLS- FORM NUMBERS AND
BOOK SIZES 37
1.6. STRUCTURE OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM 38
2. THE THEMES IN THE  ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM 40
YEAR 2 40
YEAR 3 162
YEAR 4 284
YEAR 5 409
YEAR 6 561
YEAR 7 721
YEAR 8 917
CONTENTS

===== PDF_PAGE_4 =====
4
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
1. ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
1.1.  THE BASIC APPROACH AND SPECIFIC AIMS OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 
CURRICULUM 
The Ultimate Goal of The English Language Curriculum
The fundamental goal and target of the English Language Curriculum of the Century of Türkiye Education 
Model is to enable and empower learners to acquire competence in the use of English language so that they 
can communicate effectively, competently, confidently, authentically, and naturally in all Communities of 
Practice (CoPs) and contexts that require the use of English, by supporting them according to their needs, 
ages, levels, interests, styles and aptitudes.
In this perspective, the aims and objectives of the English Language Curriculum are to support learners in 
acquiring and using all the knowledge and skills effectively and successfully so as to express themselves 
and understand others accurately and appropriately in all social and cultural contexts that require the use of 
English. In this way, it aims to support learners in successful use of English as a tool, medium, and means to 
make positive and progressive contributions to life in their own society, to life in the world, and to life in the 
future.
The Position of English for Türkiye
Spoken by billions of people around the world and used in science, education, the arts, the environment, 
health, tourism, business, etc., English covers a large geography as a mother tongue, second-administrative/ 
official language and foreign language. Therefore, it is considered to be the most common language in the 
world in terms of the number of individuals who speak it, the third most common language in terms of the 
number of its native speakers, and the most widespread language being used in a geography covering almost 
90 countries and regions. This situation facilitates ease of communication at international level.
The global status and role of English are undergoing a significant change. Once regarded and viewed as 
a culturally dominant language, English now serves as an international medium that can help countries 
to convey their unique circumstances, cultures, and lived experiences from their own socio-cultural 
perspectives. In the English Language Curriculum, the term “foreign language” is preferred for the English 
language. This term is based on the three concentric “Language Circles/Circle Model” which summarises the 
use of English around the world. According to this model, the “Inner Circle”, includes countries such as the 
United Kingdom and the United States of America, where English is used as a “mother tongue/first language/
native language”. They are known as the countries that set the standard criteria for the English language, 
and as countries where people learn and use it as a “second language”. These countries are home to various 
people and communities whose first language is not English. The “Outer Circle” are former British colonies 
where English is used as a “second/official/administrative language”. The “Expanding Circle” countries where 
English is learnt and used as a “foreign language” and it is not the native language of the learners and users 
in these countries. According to this classification, Türkiye is in the “Expanding Circle” and is a country where 
English is taught as a “foreign language”.
The Attributes that Constitute the Character of the English Language Curriculum 
There are several attributes which give the English Language Curriculum its unique character as described 
below.
The Focus on the Aspects and Factors of Language Learning 
The learners’ learning types, resulting from their cognitive, emotional, physical, social and learning culture 
aspects, and also factors of learning such as “age, aptitude, learning styles, motivation level, and personality”, 
were taken into account in each dimension of the English Language Curriculum such as “field skills”, “learning 
outcomes”, “learning- teaching experiences and practices”, and differentiated learning practices”. In the 
English Language Curriculum for 2-8, the “four core and three supportive foreign language skills”, “learning 
outcomes”, and “learning-teaching experiences and practices” were designed and developed according to a 
“holistic and recognition-based” approach for years 2-4, a “semi holistic-semi inductive (discovery)” approach 
for years 5-6, and an “inductive (discovery) approach for years 7-8.

===== PDF_PAGE_5 =====
5
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Alignment of the English Language Curriculum with the Common European Framework of Reference for 
Languages (CEFR)
The English Language Curriculum was aligned with the Common European Framework of Reference for 
Languages (CEFR) by comparing and matching the curriculum’s content and learning outcomes with the 
CEFR descriptors. The alignment process took into account the target main and sub-themes, vocabulary, 
language structures, and social language content, in line with course hours, the socio-cultural context, and 
the aim of preparing for the future of foreign language education in Türkiye.
CEFR level A1 has been adapted as A1.1, A1.2, A1.3 in Years 2, 3 and 4 for Primary Education. CEFR level A2 has 
been adapted as A2.1, A2.2, A2.3, A2.4 in Years 5, 6, 7, and 8 for Lower Secondary Education. CEFR Level B1 
has been adapted as B1.1, B1.2, B1.3, B1.4 in Years 9, 10, 11, and 12 for Upper Secondary Education. The English 
Language Curriculum for the Multilingual Foreign Language Education Model includes CEFR Levels A2+B1 in 
Year 5. CEFR Level B2 has been adapted as B2.1, B2.2, B2.3 levels in Years 6, 7 and 8 for Lower Secondary 
Education. The Upper Secondary School Preparatory Programme has been adapted to A2+ B1 levels. CEFR 
Level B2 has been adapted as B2.1, B2.2, B2.3, B2.4 levels in Years 9, 10, 11, and 12 for Upper Secondary 
Education after Preparatory Programme.
Four Field Skills and Three Supportive Skills in the English Language Curriculum
The English Language Curriculum is based on four field language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, 
reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, writing-expression) and additionally three supportive 
language skills (grammaring: selection-use, vocabulary: selection-use, and pronunciation: selection-use). 
Most of the time, “grammar knowledge, vocabulary knowledge, and knowledge of phonological aspects 
(pronunciation)” have been accepted as content knowledge in the language skills literature because they are 
based on the “recognition” stage of the receptive language skills. However, the “selection and use stages” of 
these skills should be clearly defined, and it should also be emphasised that they relate to the production 
stage of language. Otherwise, this gap in the literature may lead to confusion and misunderstandings. Once 
target grammatical items, target vocabulary and phonological aspects have been receptively recognised 
and identified in context as part of linguistic competence, they need to be selected and used accurately, 
appropriately, and efficiently in the interaction or communication phases involved in acquiring productive 
skills. This always happens in the natural flow of language practice however has not been precisely and 
openly named and defined in the foreign language literature. In the English Language Curriculum, the 
position, place, and application of these skills are clearly named, defined, and described to be consciously 
used in practise. The English Language Curriculum emphasises their importance without changing the 
status and importance of four field language skills recognising that all those field skills and these supportive 
skills have an interdependent, reciprocal, and effective relationship for language acquisition, learning, and 
development. 
Terminology for Language Skills
When referring to language skills, the listening skill is described and used as “listening/watching-
comprehension (meaning making) skill” rather than simply “listening”; while the reading skill is described as 
“reading-comprehension (meaning making) skill” rather than simply “reading” as receptive skills. Similarly, the 
writing skill is described as “writing-expression skill” instead of just “writing” and speaking skill is described as 
“speaking-expression skill” instead of just “speaking” as productive skills. The selection and use of grammar, 
vocabulary and pronunciation as supportive skills are described as “grammaring: selection-use skill, 
vocabulary: selection-use skill, and pronunciation: selection-use skill” in the English Language Curriculum.

===== PDF_PAGE_6 =====
6
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
 
1- Listening/Watching-Comprehension 
2- Reading-Comprehension 
3- Speaking-Expression 
4- Writing-Expression
1- Grammaring: Selection and Use
2- Vocabulary: Selecting and Use
3- Pronunciation: Selection and Use
Receptive 
SkillsFOREIGN LANGUAGE
FIELD SKILLS
FOREIGN LANGUAGE 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
Productive
Skills
Infographic: Field Skills and Supportive Skills
Reducing the Number of Themes 
The English Language Curriculum has been simplified by considering the number of the weekly lessons by 
reducing the number of themes (units) It is organised in such a way so as to confirm that the themes are 
covered in greater depth and that all the skills activities are implemented effectively by allocating sufficient 
time. In addition, “consolidation, differentiation, and reflection” activities are integrated into this thematic 
structure. Since the number of themes has been reduced, the content of each theme might appear dense, 
however, this is due to the revisional and consolidating nature of the whole programme. Even though there 
are fewer themes and they may seem dense, they actually include less content compared to previous 
programmes.
Simultaneous and Common Revision Programme 
In the English Language Curriculum, a four or three-week revision programme at the beginning of each 
academic year has been planned and designed for all years and levels. This revision programme has been 
prepared by merging eight themes in each year into two themes to be taught at the beginning of the year. 
Lesson materials are to be designed for this situation for the revision of the previous level before each new 
level in the programme. Thus it is aimed to regulate all levels of English by providing that they are revised 
simultaneously and with the same content in each level in every part of our country. There is also an 
orientation programme for one or two weeks at the beginning of the school year to be applied in all schools 
nationwide.
The Unique Thematic Model 
The thematic sequence of the English Language Curriculum is based on eight main themes covering 
eight major concepts of life in all years and at all levels. Then, each main theme is divided into sub-themes 
which cover the main concepts in more detail and in smaller units. The sub-themes of the main themes 
are organised in a structure that complements each other but gradually deepens and becomes more 
comprehensive as years and levels progress. However, sub-topics change across all years and levels and 
are not the same in any year or level.  In this way, the aim is to cover all life-related subjects and concepts 
throughout learners’ language education and to equip them with the ability to understand, express and 
communicate their knowledge, thoughts, and feelings in English.
Vocabulary Sequence and Distribution
In the English Language Curriculum, the lexical items belonging to each sub-theme are carefully clustered 
and arranged according to the specific sub-theme content and the sequence of the programmes from A1 to 
B2. A vocabulary target has been set for each programme and these targets have been carefully arranged to 
be implemented both in terms of international standards and in terms of the originality and uniqueness of 

===== PDF_PAGE_7 =====
7
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
the English Language Curriculum prepared for the Turkish context. For the selection and distribution of the 
vocabulary, the frequency lists and categories from English corpora in dictionaries, as well as the content 
produced by leading publishers and international exams, have been reviewed, analysed, and studied. 
Vocabulary clusters have been listed according to each sub-theme in the programme. These clusters have 
been examined multiple times discreetly, and word lists have been created for the entire English Language 
Curriculum.
Background Grammar
The English Language Curriculum adopts a contextual and continuous approach to grammar learning that 
previously learnt structures are reused in the context of new themes. A revision programme, implemented 
at the beginning of each academic year, is designed to reuse all grammatical knowledge from earlier years 
by recalling and consolidating them in context. In addition to this, it provides opportunities for students 
to encounter and reuse earlier content, supporting the acquisition of new target structures. Rather than 
reteaching these prior elements explicitly, they are embedded naturally within the context of some theme, 
functioning as supportive features alongside new grammatical targets as context and meaning makers. 
New or previously learned, grammar is not taught through isolated or direct instruction, instead, students 
are encouraged to understand and internalise grammar through meaningful use and contextual exposure by 
exploring and discovering its functions, meaning, and use.
Integration of Idiomatic Everyday Social Language Expressions
The aim of including “idiomatic social language expressions” used in real-life situations in the English 
Language Curriculum is to build a connection, appropriate to the students’ age, between the language 
learned in the classroom and the language used in real life. The goal of using everyday idiomatic social 
language expressions in every theme and year of the English Language Curriculum is to add “currency (up-
to-dateness), relevance, fluency, authenticity (realness), and meaningfulness” to the language. In this way, 
it is intended to develop students’ ability to use the language in different social contexts, to understand 
and learn about different socio-cultural uses of language, to communicate with speakers of the language 
through these different socio-cultural uses, to develop respect for diverse socio-cultural uses, to activate 
emotional and social intelligence during language use, and to use the foreign language in its natural form. 
The aim is for students to enrich, internalise, and use the foreign language they are learning more naturally.
Differentiated Learning
Differentiated Learning is one of fundamental components of the English Language Curriculum of the 
Century of Türkiye Education Model. In the English Language Curriculum, differentiation activities which are 
held as expanding and supporting activities have been designed by taking the main activities in “learning-
teaching experiences” section as central. They are designed by considering the diverse needs of learners 
to provide a fair and equal learning opportunities to all learners in harmony with their pace and capacity. 
The design and modification of differentiated activities has been organised in terms of their content and 
process. Expectations for the end products have been varied since learners’ performance could be different. 
The environment of learning has also been considered to provide a physically and socially convenient and 
comfortable milieu for learners. Activities have been carefully graded to achieve the provision of effective 
and appropriate techniques for a variety of learners with diverse needs.
Integration of Technology into the English Language Curriculum
Technological Pedagogical Content Knowledge (TPACK) is known as a framework to integrate technology 
into educational programmes in an effective way for teachers to be aware of three major knowledge types: 
technological, pedagogical, and content knowledge. A significant part of the technological stance of the 
English Language Curriculum has been designed around the three pillars of this framework: helping teachers 
recognise what they already know about the language (grammar, vocabulary, phonological aspects, etc.); 
recognising how much they know about how to facilitate learners’ learning (lesson planning, techniques, 
etc.) and how they can use educational technologies and tools (AI based tools, Internet platforms, etc.); to 

===== PDF_PAGE_8 =====
8
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
expand learners’ engagement, and deepen their understanding. The conscious use of technology to improve 
learning-teaching experiences and practices are supported in this way through several apps for designing 
materials such as digital stories, summaries, picture strip stories, documentaries, songs, poems and so on 
throughout the themes.
“Blended Learning” has been taken as the second conceptual and theoretical framework for the use of 
technology in the English Language Curriculum since it combines up-to-date online and face-to-face 
teaching methods with technological tools, media, and techniques. In terms of the amount of technology and 
the types of techniques, ways, and means of the technology integration into the learning- teaching process 
in all years. In the English Language Curriculum, the use of technology refers to the integration of technology 
into the materials, teaching and learning process of lessons inside and outside the classroom for facilitating, 
enriching, and expanding learning, using English and communicating in English. Theoretically, it is derived 
from “Active Learning” which aims to use the technology to help learners think and learn more deeply by 
facilitating their learning process in an enjoyable way, in appropriate contexts through technological means 
by using real, natural, and authentic language.
Incorporating the Cultural and Moral Foundations of the Century of Türkiye Education Model into the 
English Language Curriculum
In line with the Century of Türkiye Education Model, the English Language Curriculum gives importance 
to enabling students to develop sensitivity towards national and spiritual values and to recognise their 
own cultural identities. These aspects have been given particular attention in the curriculum. In designing 
the sub-themes and the contexts within these themes, care has been taken to ensure that the content 
aligns with students’ cultural identities and these core values. To this end, the programme incorporates 
activities related to sports, arts, literature along with moral values and traditions, national and religious 
days, celebrations, and events.
This approach aims to both strengthen students’ connection with their own national, cultural, and global 
worlds and enable them to express their national and cultural elements while learning English. In this way, 
the English Language Curriculum demonstrates consistency with the national, cultural, and pedagogical 
framework of the Century of Türkiye Education Curriculum model. In this line, some examples to the national, 
religious, traditional and cultural celebrations and days are presented below.
National Celebrations and Important Days
18 March
Çanakkale Victory and Martyrs’ Day
23 April
National Sovereignty and Children’s Day
19 May
The Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day
15 July
Democracy and National Unity Day
30 August
Victory Day
29 October
Republic Day

===== PDF_PAGE_9 =====
9
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
10 November
Atatürk Memorial Day
24 November
Teachers’ Day
Religious Celebrations
Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)
Festival of Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)
Traditional and National Sports Events in Türkiye
Archery
Oil Wrestling
Mounted Javelin Game
Handkerchief Grab
Sack Race
Tug of War
Cultural Days and Weeks
26 September
Turkish Language Day
20 November
Children’s Rights Day
Last week of March
Library Week
Customs and Traditions
Visiting Elders on Religious Holidays
Ramadan Iftar Meals
Hospitality
Infographic: National, Religious, Traditional and Cultural Celebrations and Days

===== PDF_PAGE_10 =====
10
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Philosophical, Theoretical, and Methodological Stance of the English Language Curriculum
Philosophical Approach to Learning and Teaching
In the English Language Curriculum, the philosophical background does not refer to a background that 
defines foreign language education as the transfer of structures to the student, but to a background that 
aims at the individual, cultural and social perception, formation and development of the learner. In the English 
Language Curriculum, as in any field of education, the teaching of English as a foreign language is based on 
a number of philosophical approaches. This foundation includes the basic principles that reveal the goals, 
nature, organisation, and teaching processes of foreign language education. The theoretical approaches of 
applied linguistics, which establish the theoretical framework of teaching English as a foreign language, are 
also positioned on this philosophical background. In addition, the design, implementation, and evaluation of 
the curriculum are also shaped on this background.
The components of the philosophical foundation of the English Language Curriculum can be considered as 
“the aims and objectives of learning English”, “the process of learning English”.
a) The Aims and Objectives of Learning English
Individual formation and development goals that describe English language learning as a phenomenon 
contributes to cognitive, emotional and spiritual development and supports individual development not 
only for communication but also as a means of thinking and perceiving.
Cultural goals and objectives that describe the phenomenon of English language learning as contributing 
to learners’ awareness of and respect for their own culture, awareness of the existence of other cultures 
in the world, and understanding and respect for people from their and other cultures.
Social aims which recognise that learning English is about first expressing oneself effectively and 
accurately, then understanding other people accurately and communicating effectively with them in 
contexts such as school, family, neighbourhood, country, the world and so on.
b) The Process of Learning English
In the English Language Curriculum, the process of learning English refers to individual formation, 
growth, and development. The process dimension is reflected in the English Language Curriculum 
through various “Applied Linguistics” approaches. This theoretical background has been synthesised in 
the teaching of English as a foreign language in all English classes and themes of the programme, and this 
synthesised theoretical background has formed the background and framework for defining the content 
and implementation of the English Language Curriculum.
Action-Oriented Approach to Foreign Language Learning-Teaching Process in the English Language 
Curriculum
One of the major principles of the Action-Oriented Approach (AOA) is described as enabling learners to 
perform for succeeding in communication in real-life socio-cultural contexts as stated in the 2020 version of 
the CEFR Handbook. Learners’ involvement in the learning process and their awareness on the social nature 
and use of language learning is of great importance in AOA. Learners are expected to be aware of their 
own individual learning and also of the relationship between the consequences of their personal learning 
and the social life. These principles are in harmony with the academic stance of the English Language 
Curriculum which is based on these autonomous, purposeful, communicative, and collaborative learning in 
socio-cultural contexts in and out of the school. These characteristics of the English Language Curriculum 
direct the attention from the language itself to “how to learn and how to use it” perspective in the AOA as 
stated in the CEFR. Linguistic elements are the means of English language learning to be able to use them 
autonomously and collaboratively with peers and other people in social and cultural contexts. In the English 
Language Curriculum, the aim for learners is to interact and communicate successfully, but then to transfer 
their knowledge and skills as successful communicators contributing to their own development, to their own 
society in which they live in and also to the whole world through English as their foreign language, wherever 
the use of English language is needed.
To bring these ideas to life, each sub-theme of the main theme in the English Language Curriculum is used 
to build up a micro socio-cultural context with all possible real-life situations through relevant materials and 
bring them into the classroom. Learners first learn what these concepts in the sub-themes are about with 

===== PDF_PAGE_11 =====
11
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
the help of linguistics elements such as words, phrases, sentences, use of grammatical items and so on. 
Then they understand and learn how these linguistic elements function in creating semantic meanings in 
English. They learn how to use them in communicating with other people to express their own understandings 
through their knowledge, thoughts, ideas, and feelings, and then to understand the perspective of other 
people in English. Ultimately, the aim of the English Language Curriculum for learners is to transform their 
communicative competence, capacity, and ability to be good communicators and contributors in their 
community, in different (multilingual) societies, and in the world to make it a better place.
In the English Language Curriculum, this transformation is processed through several communicative 
activities, tasks, projects, assignments, and performances throughout the themes. Learners work on many 
activities and tasks to learn how to interact and communicate, then they transfer this knowledge and skills to 
where they work both individually and collaboratively on real-life topics and socio-cultural contexts of each 
theme of the English Language Curriculum to access issues, challenges, problems and their remedies about 
the facts and situations in their immediate or distant environment.
Post-Method Approach
The English Language Curriculum does not rely on and adhere to a single language teaching method but 
synthesises various English language teaching approaches, methods defined and described by different 
approaches and theories, combining them by selecting and using appropriate techniques from them in 
a meaningful way. This combination has been designed in line with the basic objectives in all years of the 
English Language Curriculum. The aim of this combination is to facilitate learners’ learning processes so that 
they can develop their basic language skills, gain communicative competence and use English effectively, 
naturally, and competently in real and natural life contexts. This synthesis has been adopted in the English 
Language Curriculum and explains the methodological stance of it. 
This stance in the English Language Curriculum, is not based on a specific and single teaching method; 
it defines and describes the selection of the appropriate and suitable techniques and activities for the 
appropriate and suitable learner, place, time, context, situation and purpose, with an emphasis on factors 
affecting language acquisition and learning, such as learners’ age, learning styles, motivation levels, 
aptitudes, and personality traits, as described in the Post-Method Era Approach to teaching languages.
In the “Post-Method Era” perspective of the programme, various up-to-date and traditional methods such as 
“the Action-Oriented Method of CEFR”, “the Communicative Method”, “Blended Learning”, “Flipped Classroom”, 
“Situated Learning”, “Digital-Artificial Intelligence Supported Learning”, “Contextual and Authentic Learning”, 
“Social Learning”, “Collaborative Learning”, “Learning Through Drama”, “Task-Based Language Learning 
Design”, “Total Physical Response”, “Community-Language Learning”, “Multiple Intelligence Theory”,  and 
“Suggestopedia”, are considered as part of the approach. “Field skills”, “learning outcomes” and “learning-
teaching experiences” sections in the English Language Curriculum have been organised in accordance 
with this methodological background. The practical implementation of the English Language Curriculum is 
planned according to this theoretical and academic stance by taking learners’ ages; cognitive, emotional, 
physical, social, cultural aspects; learning styles; and interests into account.
Socio-Cultural Approach and the Communicative Approach
In the design and formation of the English Language Curriculum, one of the basic foundations is the “Socio- 
Cultural Approach” which posits that language acquires meaning within social and cultural contexts, and that 
language learning enables individuals to interact with different cultures while maintaining their own cultural 
identity. This approach is based on the interaction between language and culture and fosters intercultural 
understanding. This approach has been proposed and developed by many applied linguists and has been 
adopted as one of the central conceptual and theoretical foundations of foreign language education. 
English can make important contributions to both individuals and societies in terms of their personal 
development, access to information, various personal, educational, professional and business opportunities, 
their ability to understand and convey cultural differences, and participation in universal communication. 
Today, it is widely used as a global means of communication among individuals and societies in a number of 
fields such as education, science, the arts, technology, business, media, and diplomacy.
Through different forms and varieties of English, it can enable speaking communities by articulating speaking 
communities to express their own identities and can allow different individual and local voices to be heard in 

===== PDF_PAGE_12 =====
12
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
global communication contexts rather than dominating with its culture and nativeness through it changing 
role in the world. In creating themes and course contents of the English Language Curriculum, the “Socio-
Cultural Approach” has been adopted as part of the conceptual and theoretical framework, emphasising 
that English can serve as a common means for people to express their social and cultural voices. 
Approaches to Learning and Teaching in the English Language Curriculum 
The English Language Curriculum is based on the General Aims of Turkish National Education and the Basic 
Principles of Turkish National Education as expressed in Article 2 of the National Education Basic Law No. 
1739.  In this curriculum, students are seen as “active participants”, “active observers”, “responsible learners”, 
“discoverers”, “context members”, “communicators”, “explorers”, “problem solvers”, “members of learning 
communities”, “receivers and providers of feedback”, “reflectors of thoughts and emotions”, “innovative 
practitioners and producers”, “competent language users”, “co-facilitators” and “social agents”. Within this 
scope, the objectives concerning students are as follows:
1) They are expected to:
a) recognise, perceive, identify, understand, and interpret oral/verbal (auditory) and written (visual) 
content, which contains the language with target language structures, vocabulary and social 
language correctly and efficiently.
b) apply this knowledge and related skills to their own lives and use it effectively in oral/verbal or written 
communication in English.
c) use this knowledge and related skills to understand social and cultural differences to communicate 
with other people effectively in English.
2) They are expected to find remedies for the problems and issues in the content by recognising, perceiving, 
and making sense of the functions of the language with the target language structures, words and social 
language that they are learning, and to express these remedies.
3) In case of a language communication problem with others, they are expected to share the solution with 
a content that includes the language with the target language structures, words and social language 
functioning well and can contribute to healthy communication.
4) They are expected to understand and respect the content including rules, principles, situations, 
thoughts, feelings, and values of other cultures.
5) In situations that require provision of information and/or discussion of content, they are expected to be 
able to convey this information in a language that includes target language structures, words and social 
language in a form that they function accurately, and others perceive and understand it.
6) When discussing ideas and opinions, they are expected to justify their ideas and opinions in a consistent 
and valid way in communication with others by using understandable, accurate and appropriate English.
7) They are expected to use the content in English automatically, authentically, naturally and appropriately 
in the necessary and appropriate contexts at school and in their personal and social lives outside school.
8) They are expected to have a holistic perspective in understanding different information, emotions, 
thoughts and justifications with the help of language skills, the accumulation of knowledge, thoughts, 
and opinions they have gained as a result of understanding, perceiving, analysing, synthesising and 
evaluating the content, and to reflect this perspective in communicative exchanges and discussions 
they have with others in English.
9) They are expected to acquire social-emotional skills, literacy skills, higher-order thinking skills and 
values by integrating them with English language learning skills.
10) They are expected to use all the language skills and other skills integrated with English language skills 
that they have acquired to improve and develop their own and others’ living conditions; to use them 
for the benefit and development of their country; to use them to develop living conditions in the world 
and in nature; to play an active role in designing and shaping the future by using these skills to develop 
innovative and creative ideas.

===== PDF_PAGE_13 =====
13
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Unique Thematic 
Approach
Eight basic topics with 
sub-themes at all levels to 
cover almost all concepts of 
life in an adjacent, interwoven 
and integrated way
• Holistic Approach
• Semi-Holistic/Semi-Inductive Approach 
• Inductive Approach
Reduction in the Number 
of Themes for More 
In-depth Learning 
Studying themes in depth and 
using all skills effectively in 
the allocation of time
Technological 
Orientation 
Standard and Simultaneous 
Nationwide Revision 
Programme  
Using technology to 
understand life better, to 
learn deeply, to think 
critically, and to improve life 
in the most human way
Standardised and carefully designed 
revision programme for all years and 
levels to be implemented at the same 
time throughout Türkiye
Multi-dimensional 
Assessment and 
Evaluation
Approach-based 
Learning
Emphasis on practice, 
performance, competency and 
process-oriented assessment 
and evaluation
• Listening/Watching-Comprehension
• Reading-Comprehension
• Speaking-Expression
• Writing-Expression
• Grammaring: Selection and Use
• Vocabulary: Selection and Use
• Pronunciation: Selection and Use
Four Field Skills-Based
Curriculum with Three 
Supportive Skills
Post-Method
Pedagogy
Choosing and using the most 
appropriate techniques and 
activities according to 
learners’ diverse learning 
needs and characteristics 
rather than a speciﬁc and 
single teaching method
Socio-Cultural 
Integration
Taking into account the 
foreign language needs, 
cultural background and social 
contexts of Türkiye along with 
global awareness and 
intercultural understanding
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 
CURRICULUM
Infographic: The English Language Curriculum

===== PDF_PAGE_14 =====
14
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
1.2.  PRINCIPLES FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 
CURRICULUM
• The English Language Curriculum has been structured in alignment with the “Common Document of 
the Century of Türkiye Education Model”. This document should be taken into consideration in planning 
English lessons; designing and preparing course materials; planning assessment and evaluation 
processes (both for formal and alternative and process-based assessment and evaluation), designing and 
preparing assessment and evaluation materials; designing and preparing the contents of coursebooks 
and other supplementary teaching materials. All educational activities should be planned and carried 
out to ensure that the learner profile in the Common Document of the Century of Türkiye Education 
Model is achieved.
• As the English Language Curriculum will be implemented gradually, the deficiencies and problems in the 
prior learning processes related to the existing level in English should be determined by the teachers 
in English departments of the schools. The content to address these deficiencies and problems 
should be determined in the departmental meetings at the beginning of the academic year and should 
be implemented throughout the educational process. There is a revision programme in the English 
Language Curriculum for each year (grade), to be implemented simultaneously throughout Türkiye. This 
revision programme consists of the content of the previous level for each new level and/or year (grade). 
There will be two or four revision themes according to the type of the programme before the first theme 
of the syllabus prepared for each level and/or year (grade) which will take place in the teaching materials. 
In this way, learners can both remember the content of the previous level and also can be prepared for 
the themes of the new level. The revision programmes of English lessons for all years (grades) in Türkiye 
will contribute to standardisation throughout the country.
• Field skills are used as the basis for creating the learning outcomes in the English Language Curriculum. 
Process components are identified for each field skill, as well as for each learning outcome. These 
process components are the basic elements that provide access to the learning outcomes. Accordingly, 
each process component needs to be experienced by learners in the English language classroom.
• The English Language Curriculum is structured on “foreign language field skills and supportive skills” 
included in the Common Document of the Century of Türkiye Education Model.
• In the English Language Curriculum, activities and applications have been designed by considering 
most appropriate approaches, methods, and techniques according to their ages, and language levels. 
In line with the Post-Method Era Approach to teaching English as a foreign language, the emphasis is on 
selecting the accurate, appropriate, suitable, and effective techniques and activities for the right place, 
time, context, material, situation and purpose, according to the age and level of the learners, rather than 
a specific and single teaching method. Factors that affect language acquisition and learning such as 
the learners’ age, learning styles, motivation levels, aptitudes, interests, and personality traits are given 
significant consideration. This strand should be considered and used in an accurate, meaningful and 
effective way in lesson planning and implementation. Appropriate techniques that can respond to learners’ 
ages, learning styles, aptitudes, language levels, areas of interest, motivation levels and communication 
needs and also physical conditions they are in, should be considered, and necessary activities should be 
designed and implemented accordingly. In this way, they can be supported to acquire and develop their 
language competence in English. The activities based on techniques from different methods should not 
be designed in an aimless and ordinary way but in a way that helps learners discover their own learning 
purposes, ways, situations, and desires. Opportunities needed to be provided for learners to reflect on 
their learning in this way and to improve their own learning through their own reflection. Individual and 
collaborative reflection has a great importance in the English Language Curriculum, and has taken place 
as the last component of each field skill and learning outcome. 
• The first of the two Receptive Skills in the English Language Curriculum is the “Listening/Watching-
Comprehension Skill”, through which an individual develops to perceive and make sense of the oral-
verbal language content produced by a speaker or other source. These sources include the structural 

===== PDF_PAGE_15 =====
15
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
features of the language such as the accent, stress, speed, rhythm and also include content and 
semantic features (related to the theme) such as idioms, terms, words, phrases, clauses, sentences 
and social and cultural reflections in the context. Learners perceive and understand these with the 
help of a variety of visuals while learning English during the noticing and recognition” stages. “Reading-
Comprehension Skill” is a skill that is developed to perceive and make sense of the written content (text) 
which is produced with the help of the text type, visual support, use of grammar, use of vocabulary, 
use of idiomatic language, and the use of all semantic features in this content. Similarly, reading is very 
important for students to ‘identify, notice, and interpret’ the content and semantic features (related to 
the theme) such as idioms, terms, words, expressions, phrases, sentences, and the social and cultural 
reflections in the context. The structural and semantic features of the language are of great importance 
for both reception and comprehension.
• “Listening/Watching-Comprehension Skill” is a real time, highly fluid and rapid process therefore requires 
fluid, instant reception and understanding and also rapid and meaningful response and feedback. 
“Reading-Comprehension”, on the other hand, is a more static, controlled and slower process. In both 
“receptive skills”, the content conveyed to the learner and learner’s perception of the meaning of the 
message are based on her/his personal and social relationship to that content. In the English Language 
Curriculum “Listening- Comprehension and Reading-Comprehension” skills, which comprise the 
reception, interpretation, and comprehension process in communication, have been organised with this 
factual information in mind. In the lesson planning and implementation phases of the English Language 
Curriculum, activities in which these skills are used need to be carefully planned, created, and arranged 
with meaningful contextual designs. Learners need to be supported to use these skills in a natural, 
realistic, effective, efficient, and meaningful way within the context to communicate with others.
• “Speaking-Expression Skill”, is one of the two “Productive Skills” defined, described, and used in the 
English Language Curriculum. “Speaking-Expression Skill” is a verbal skill that learners develop while 
learning a language so as to have the competence to communicate with other people by using the 
content that includes the target sounds, grammatical items, vocabulary, and semantic expressions 
of that language effectively and meaningfully. The main elements of “Speaking-Expression Skill” are 
planning, interaction, and communication. In speaking, the learner develops the ability to achieve social 
interaction and communicative competence by using proper and meaningful content appropriate to 
the context, situation, place and time; by producing and using the correct sounds and pronunciation; 
by expressing information, thoughts and feelings correctly, meaningfully, appropriately, clearly and 
fluently; and by transferring cultural content and messages appropriately and correctly.
• The second of the “Productive Skills”, the “Writing-Expression Skill”, is the learner’s ability and capability 
to express and convey his/her own knowledge, thoughts, experiences, and feelings in a meaningful and 
written form by using the content which contains target grammatical items, vocabulary, various forms 
of self-expression, types of writing, and rules of the language. The acquisition of “Writing-Expression 
Skill”, which focuses on transfer, expression and production, begins with the “noticing-recognition-
comprehension” of relevant input in the content in the English Language Curriculum. The transfer and 
understanding of information in input is processed through the use of receptive skills such as listening, 
watching, and reading. The ability and skill to write, express, and explain involves many processes that 
require planning, implementation and rewriting (by considering the feedback given), and developing the 
text that allows the development of creativity. This skill is strengthened through different types of writing 
studies. Activities, plans, and practices in which productive skills are used in the English Language 
Curriculum, need to be carefully planned, designed, and created in a contextual and meaningful way. 
Learners need to be supported to develop their communicative competence by using their English 
“Speaking-Expression” and “Writing-Expression” skills in a natural, authentic, automatic, realistic, 
effective, efficient and meaningful way within the context.
• “Supportive Skills”, as defined and described in the English Language Curriculum, are processed with 
all the other language skills. There is a spiral, interdependent, and reciprocal relationship between 
the field skills and supportive skills therefore all the skills are used in an integrated, unified, spiral, and 

===== PDF_PAGE_16 =====
16
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
interconnected manner. Grammatical, lexical (vocabulary) and phonological aspects of a language are 
most often taken as content knowledge even if their selection and use are mentioned in the relevant 
literature without positioning and naming them in a specific way as they are related to learners’ “linguistic 
competence”. In the recognition stage of language learning, language learners encounter, perceive 
and recognise grammatical items, lexical items (vocabulary) and phonological aspects (pronunciation, 
intonation, etc.) and are expected to begin to acquire their “linguistic competence” which will later be 
linked to productive skills. This recognition stage is present in the processing of “Receptive Skills”. It may 
therefore be necessary to divide the learning of grammar, vocabulary and pronunciation into two stages: 
recognition stage and selection-use stage. The “use” stage takes place in the processing of “Productive 
Skills” in language learning through the skills of “Speaking-Expression” and “Writing-Expression”.
• This determination about supportive skills in the English Language Curriculum is not for producing new 
information. It is rather for positioning the information about the selection and use of grammatical, 
lexical, and phonological aspects as “Supportive Skills” that take place in theory and practice in a vague 
way and that leads to considering how to empower learners in acquiring their “pragmatic, strategic, 
communicative, and sociolinguistic competences”.
• “Grammaring: Selection-Use Skill” is the first of the three “Supportive Skills” in the English Language 
Curriculum. It is one of the language skills that is approached in the same way as other language skills 
by using the appropriate methodology and context. For Years 7-8 of lower secondary school, “inductive” 
learning techniques based on “conscious awareness” are used for this skill. For supporting learners to 
acquire the functions of this competence, appropriate, and correct activities should be selected in 
contexts that are natural and authentic. These activities should aim to contribute to the acquisition and 
development of learners’ communication competence by using English grammar as naturally, correctly, 
authentically, and automatically as possible.
• Grammar “acquisition” is the situation in which children naturally pick up, adopt, and use the grammatical 
items and forms (and other elements of the language) of their mother tongue, in a realistic and natural 
environment and context, without conscious focus, without being aware of it, in an automatic, natural 
and real way. In the case of foreign language education provided at school, it is described as “language 
learning” (including grammar and other elements of the language). The elements that define language 
learning are the artificial environment, planning, conscious learning of rules and short-term goals. In 
the English Language Curriculum, teaching grammaring aims to build an environment where learners 
can communicate by using the language with correct grammar in a natural, realistic and meaningful 
way in context and on a correct and appropriate methodological basis that can make this possible in a 
natural, realistic, automatic, and meaningful way. This can only be achieved to a certain extent, and the 
necessary condition for this, is building a continuous, natural and authentic environment in the classroom 
where grammar is not taught as a subject by the teacher but through the use of appropriate methods, 
techniques, materials, and activities. For this reason, the process should be supported by a plenty of 
natural and realistic repetition, revision, interaction, storytelling, role-playing, and communication 
activities. In the English Language Curriculum , the grammar learning process of primary school pupils 
(Years 2, 3, 4) is described with the “Holistic Approach”, where the functions of the right hemisphere of 
the brain are found to be more effective, as explained in the relevant literature, helping them see, hear, 
and use grammar automatically without being aware of its rules, and where features and activities such 
as visuals, rhythm, music, movement, drama, and storytelling are used through all aspects affecting 
learning (physical, cognitive, affective, cultural, and social) together. The process of learning grammar 
in Years 5 and 6 of lower secondary school is described as the “Semi-Holistic/Semi-Inductive Approach”, 
using features and activities such as visuals, rhythm, music, movement, drama, and storytelling, which 
still allow the functions of the right hemisphere of the brain to be effective. At the same time, the 
functions of the left hemisphere of the brain, which provides awareness, natural and simple inferences, 
and very simple discoveries, are gradually activated, but there is a condition that grammar should not be 
taught as a subject by the teacher. Noticing and awareness activities are the most important activities 
of this approach and do not involve teacher explanation or conscious discovery tasks. For learners in 

===== PDF_PAGE_17 =====
17
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Years 7, 8 of lower secondary school and Years 9, 10, 11, 12 of upper secondary school the “Inductive 
Approach” is described to learn grammar in a meaningful and appropriate context by discovering the 
rules themselves. The functions of the left hemisphere of the brain are more effective in this discovery 
process, by being aware of their meaning, function, usage, form, by using higher-level thinking skills 
such as examining, comparing and classifying, and by making inferences based on their meaning without 
using terminology or formulations. In this approach, the functions of the right hemisphere of the brain 
can still be activated through the activities such as visuals, music, movement, drama, and storytelling 
in the created course content. In the learning process, it is necessary to create continuous, natural, 
authentic, and realistic contexts and environments where grammar is not taught as a subject by the 
teacher in the school classroom but is facilitated to help learners use the language by selecting and 
using grammar with appropriate techniques and activities in these natural and realistic contexts. In 
the English Language Curriculum , activating the functions of   both hemispheres of the brain as much 
as possible in all lessons is encouraged so all the activities need to be carefully planned, designed and 
created in a contextual and meaningful way in lesson planning and practice so that learners can and use 
English grammar in a natural, authentic, automatic, realistic, effective, efficient, and meaningful way 
according to the context, and thus can acquire and develop their communicative competence.
• In English Language Curriculum, one of the three “Supportive Skills”, “Vocabulary: Selection-Use Skill” 
is based on the learner’s positioning and using the target words after recognising, perceiving, and 
understanding them through “Receptive Skills” in the target content in a way that is appropriate for the 
context, situation, place and time. They also remember, recall and add previously learned vocabulary 
that are appropriate for the situation and context, to the context, and select and use them correctly, 
effectively and meaningfully. These stages have been identified, revealed and applied in the “process 
components” of the “field skills” and then transferred to the “learning outcomes”, and finally to the 
“learning-teaching experiences” sections of the themes in the English Language Curriculum.
• “Vocabulary acquisition” is the situation in which children pick up and adopt words without noticing and 
analysing them in their mother tongue. “Vocabulary learning” on the other hand, is the process that takes 
place in the artificial environment of the classroom, not in the natural contexts and environments of 
second/foreign language. In order to be sure that words are used naturally, authentically, correctly, 
meaningfully, and effectively in learners’ interaction and communication processes, it is necessary to 
practise them by being aware of their meaning in a way that is appropriate to the context, their form, 
pronunciation and uses. Activities in which this skill is used should be carefully planned, designed, and 
created in a contextual and meaningful way in the lesson planning and implementation process included 
in the English Language Curriculum so that learners can use English vocabulary in a natural, authentic, 
automatic, realistic, effective, efficient and meaningful way in context and thus gain communicative 
competence.
• The third of the three “Supportive Skills” in the English Language Curriculum is the “Pronunciation: 
Selection and Use Skill”. Phonological skills help learners to use the sounds, accents, rhythms, tones, 
intonation, and pronunciation of the language correctly; to reflect the content of the speech correctly; 
and to interact and communicate efficiently and effectively. This skill is supported with activities through 
listening practice including listening exercises, repetition, imitation, pronunciation exercises, listening 
to peer recordings and giving individual feedback, listening to individual voice recordings and reflecting 
individually during automatic selection, use and reflection sessions. As with other skills, the correct and 
appropriate use of pronunciation facilitates learners’ language learning experience by giving meaning to 
the content. This content should support the provided verbal information and make the content of the 
verbal information meaningful. In lesson planning and implementation, activities that use this skill need 
to be planned, designed, and built in a contextual and meaningful way where learners are expected to 
use English pronunciation naturally, authentically, efficiently, automatically, and meaningfully.
• The English Language Curriculum also aims to support learners to develop their “sociolinguistic and 
pragmatic competence” through communicative and collaborative activities relevant to different 
cultural content and contexts. The “social language expressions” used in all the themes are part of 

===== PDF_PAGE_18 =====
18
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
this, as learners can access the real- world language by learning them inside the classroom and using 
them inside or outside the classroom in their personal lives. For supporting learners to acquire “social 
competence” through meaningful oral/verbal and in written contexts in a way that is appropriate to their 
English language levels, it is necessary to provide opportunities for them to use English effectively, 
meaningfully correctly, naturally, authentically, realistically, and fluently in their social communication, 
inside and outside school. This need to be considered in the design and implementation of all course 
contents very carefully.
• As described in the English Language Curriculum, it is essential that all processes written for “learning 
outcomes” and “process components” need to be considered and implemented in the lessons. In addition 
to this, in recommended practice, lesson planning activities should be carried out counting all related 
and integrated programme components, especially the “learning outcomes and process components” 
of the relevant theme. All the applications can be differentiated accordingly.
• In the English language classroom, it is necessary to create a learning environment that encourages 
the active participation of learners. Similarly, a classroom climate in which personal ideas can be shared 
independently and the development of social and emotional skills is supported should be created.
• Activities such as questioning, researching, observing and experimenting should be carried out with 
an interdisciplinary and contextual approach, based on the language level of learners in the class. They 
should be planned and implemented by the teachers of English departments carefully.
• In the English Language Curriculum, “establishing links” section has been described and designed as an 
important part before moving on to the “learning-teaching experiences” section of the themes. The first 
stage of the three-stages of “establishing links”, should provide the necessary preliminary information 
to facilitate the processing of the theme. The second stage should summarise what needs to be done 
to be ready to process the “learning-teaching practices” section. In the last stage, it should be indicated 
how the learners can use the knowledge, experience, and skills they develop throughout the themes, or 
to which disciplines they can transfer them and especially in which areas they can use them in their real 
lives.
• The “learning-teaching experiences” section in the themes is presented in a comprehensive framework 
to provide learners with a holistic perspective. This holistic perspective is seen as a supportive 
element for learners. The section guides the teacher to use different teaching approaches, methods, 
techniques, and activities to facilitate learners to become aware of their own learning and individual 
learning strategies they can use, to achieve constant learning, to perceive their own learning process, to 
be aware of the spiral flow and interdisciplinary relationships in the learning process within this holistic 
perspective along with the social use of the language in social contexts.
• “Reflection” is a significant component of the English Language Curriculum. Learning-teaching 
experiences are organised in a way that “field and supportive skills” and “learning outcomes” gain meaning 
together within the course flow and facilitate learners to reflect on their learning about the activities. 
Both individual and collaborative reflection takes place in the flow of “learning-teaching” process as 
described in the “field skills” and “learning outcomes” sections.
• The English Language Curriculum  has been prepared by taking into consideration “field skills and 
supportive skills”, “conceptual skills”, “dispositions”, “inter-curricular components (social-emotional 
learning skills, values, literacy skills)”, “inter-disciplinary relationships”, “inter-skills”, “content frame”, 
“generalisations and key concepts”, “indicators for learning”, “learning-teaching experiences (basic 
acceptations, pre-evaluation process, establishing links, learning-teaching practices)”, “differentiation 
(expansion and supporting)”, and “teacher reflections”. Therefore, learning outcomes should be 
addressed in accordance with the principles of progression, spirality, and sequentiality as specified in 
the themes.
• In the process and flow of “learning-teaching experiences” section, all language skills have been 
followed from easy to difficult, from known to unknown, from more controlled to more open- 
ended and communicative, according to the relevant language level. Branching learning has been 

===== PDF_PAGE_19 =====
19
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
attempted throughout these processes. Collaborative, interactive, and communicative activities 
have been suggested throughout the themes constantly. The main aim of foreign language learning, 
“to communicate by filling information gaps through reciprocal and mutual interaction, sharing, and 
exchanging ideas”, has been included in the flow of “learning-teaching experiences” section by using all 
language skills. This flow and methodological stance should be followed in the classroom to facilitate 
learners’ learning experiences.
• One of the principal aspects of the English Language Curriculum is field and supportive skills which 
are pursued, processed, and developed in a holistic, integrated, spiral and recycling manner within the 
themes. To provide and maintain this, each theme begins with a holistic introductory story, as a context 
for teaching and learning the language. The introductory story is planned to be a digital film with a script 
presenting the linguistic and semantic elements such as target grammar, vocabulary, phonological 
aspects (pronunciation, intonation, etc.), and social language expressions, appropriate to the language 
level, needed to learn the theme. The perception of the general topic of the theme is provided with 
the visuality and movement of the digital introductory story (film). The target grammatical structures, 
words, pronunciation, and social language expressions in the story are presented both visually and 
verbally. With the flow of language skills, this introductory story is revisited several times for grammar, 
vocabulary and social language content to understand the general topic first. This rich content is used 
as the basic context throughout the theme. These returns/revisits involve the use of skills beginning 
with reception and gradually turns into production. By using all skills in an integrated and spiralling way, 
the learner is enabled to bring the theme into real life and use it in communication.
• The English Language Curriculum includes different contents that are consistent with the learning 
outcomes, taking into account the learners’ readiness and learning styles and strategies in a way 
appropriate to their language levels. Written materials such as puzzles, paragraphs, reading passages, 
short stories, novels, poems, articles, worksheets, magazines, reviews; visual materials such as 
illustrated-cartoon-anime-continuous stories, posters, picture cards; preparation and verbal/audio/
visual materials such as rhymes, songs, dialogues, games, simple story recitals, podcasts, documentaries, 
interviews, radio programmes, educational videos, story videos, short films, presentation contents, 
chat groups, simulations, animations, etc. have been suggested as sources for learning experiences. 
While preparing such learning-teaching materials, cooperation and collaboration should be provided by 
department teachers and other branch teachers.
• After the introduction of each theme is provided with a contextual and introductory digital introductory 
story (film), the flow of all the language skills are given a place in an integrated way. There is a unified 
design in the “Speaking-Expression” skill to accompany other skills throughout the theme. “Grammaring: 
Selection-Use, Vocabulary: Selection-Use, Pronunciation: Selection-Use” skills are used and practised 
with the “gamification” techniques and aimed to be used effectively in communication. The impact of 
such practice activities on learning should be taken into consideration.
• In the English Language Curriculum, the reading skill is of great importance because reading texts 
create a written context providing input and providing reception of the language. In primary school 
classes, group, vocal and fun “pyramid reading” and “radio reading” techniques, which are also used for 
pronunciation are preferred. In secondary school, “silent jigsaw reading” techniques, which are especially 
useful and effective for crowded classes are suggested. It should not be forgotten that reading should 
be vocal for pronunciation and silent for meaning. It should also be remembered that aloud reading in 
turns serves neither purpose and wastes time. Reading skills in the English Language Curriculum are 
studied through reading sections that include the written version of the digital introductory story and 
also various other reading passages.
• “Content and Language Integrated Learning (CLIL)” is one of the methodological components of English 
Language Curriculum. In CLIL, English is taught through other disciplines. The main aim is to teach 
both the content and the language together in a simultaneous way. Culture is also an important part of 
CLIL. Local, target, and international cultures can be learned through several contents by integrating 
them into CLIL activities. All language skills are proposed to be used for “CLIL” in the English Language 

===== PDF_PAGE_20 =====
20
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Curriculum. Information processing, problem solving, researching, collaboration, critical thinking, and 
discussion techniques need to be used while working in CLIL. It must be seen as an important means 
of learning about one’s own and other people’s cultures, developing awareness of them; seeing new 
contextual uses of English created with other disciplines, and understanding and explaining content 
related to other cultures and disciplines in English.
• Consolidation is a significant process in English Language Curriculum. Content covering all grammatical 
items, target vocabulary, and social language is consolidated on a regular basis through enjoyable and 
meaningful activities. Ongoing cartoon-anime-picture-photo strip stories with resident characters are 
suggested to consolidate the content of the themes in a vivid context. All language skills are used to 
consolidate the content and to provide communication by producing new contents and contexts while 
revising the knowledge and skills acquired and remembered.
• “Performance Assignments” are also important part of English Language Curriculum, which are based 
on searching (research), constructing (creating), and presenting real-life productions and remedies 
several issues. As part of the “Action-Oriented Approach, the Communicative Approach and Task-
Based Approach” to teaching and learning, they are processed with versatile activities such as drama, 
narration, role-play, presentation, gamification, etc. in English Language Curriculum to support learner 
autonomy, “differentiated learning”, and collaborative learning. They are used in order to reconstruct the 
content covering the language including all the target language items, grammar, vocabulary, and social 
language expressions. In each theme there are many tasks also there is a performance assignment in 
which students can apply and expand what they have learnt in the theme collaboratively in a new context 
to strengthen their “productive and supportive skills”. Learners prepare performance assignments to 
remember, revise, consolidate, use, and produce new and meaningful contexts for all theme contents 
according to their language levels. Digital means and tools are also recommended to be used in the 
production of written and visual content with the guidance of the teacher. It is very important that 
these performance assignments which should be original, creative, versatile, meaningful, revisional, 
and consolidating should also reflect the perspectives of the learners about learning. The teacher’s and 
peers’ feedback and individual and collaborative reflection are very significant part of the performance 
assignments in the English Language Curriculum.
• In the English Language Curriculum “values” are presented according to the target content in the 
theme, the process of learning-teaching experiences, and learning outcomes. Learners are expected 
to internalise these values and reflect them in their daily lives. For this, learners needed to be provided 
with the opportunity to apply the value they realise during the process of examining and understanding 
the content in the activities in the themes.
• In the studies conducted in the English Language Curriculum or in the products such as projects, 
portfolios, poems, songs, articles, stories, reviews, etc., attention should be paid to issues related to 
copyright and protection of personal data. Content should be created that complies with the constitution 
and laws, considers the sensitivities of individuals or society, reflects national and moral values, and 
respects the rights and freedoms of individuals. Learners should be made aware of their legal rights and 
responsibilities when creating and sharing content.
• In the English Language Curriculum, the activities included in the expansion and supporting sections 
in the “differentiation” section do not take place in teaching materials. However, some e-contents are 
prepared by the material developers for the implementation of their contents. All practices and activities 
within the scope of differentiation should be planned and implemented by teachers, taking into account 
the interests, needs, and requests of the learners.
• It is important to include reading texts that broaden students’ horizons, inspire and encourage them, 
and reflect Türkiye’s achievements to date, its internationally renowned works, its visibility, vision, and 
recent successes, as well as texts, including digital content, that explain the significant and unique 
contributions of our country’s institutions and people in the English Language Curriculum. It is essential 
that the selected reading texts align with national, spiritual, cultural, and moral values of our country. 
Reading materials should be chosen to support the idea that students learn about the values of our 

===== PDF_PAGE_21 =====
21
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
history, culture, and civilisation accurately.
• In the English Language Curriculum, the aims, objectives, methods, criteria and tools of assessment/
evaluation based on the learners’ English levels have been included as an essential part. An alternative 
assessment/evaluation scheme has been designed to assess/evaluate English-related knowledge 
and skills in creating new meaningful content and communicating through it. The components of the 
English Language Curriculum have been made a meaningful part of learning and evaluation. Instead of 
assessing/evaluating “values, dispositions, literacy skills and social-emotional learning skills” with marks 
and scores, some alternative evaluation tools including classroom-based and/or out-of-classroom 
activities such as performance tasks, portfolios, projects, diaries, interviews, drama studies, etc. have 
been used to evaluate their development together. These components are also among the criteria 
taken into consideration in the evaluation tools and marking/scoring keys of such performances and 
achievements. These alternative evaluation techniques have been included in the English Language 
Curriculum to evaluate language skills, collaborative activities such as pair and group work, and 
creative, productive, and communicative activities according to language levels. The evaluation 
criteria for each skill are listed as “purposes, indicators, application, frequency of use, evaluation tools, 
and evaluation focus” and are defined and described according to learners’ language level. This list 
is provided in the entry section of the English Language Curriculum. It is not compulsory to assess/ 
evaluate every skill in every lesson. Teachers can choose any of the assessment/evaluation tools for the 
skills on the assessment/evaluation list according to the needs and learning outcomes of the theme. In 
school practice, these forms of assessment/evaluation should be varied according to language levels, 
dispositions, abilities, needs, and special situations of the learners and the context. The measurement 
and evaluation of performance development, which include knowledge and skills, should contain 
activities about situations, problems, and solutions that are interesting, related to everyday life. These 
activities should also be about situations, problems, and solutions that can be encountered in distant 
or close environments when using English in communication with others. Performance and proficiency 
in the use of the language should be assessed/evaluated according to these criteria. Learners should 
be provided with feedback on the linguistic, cultural, and social formation of their performance which 
is non-judgemental, motivational, supportive, and facilitative of their learning. Throughout the whole 
assessment/evaluation process, digital technologies can be used to make the applications and 
implementation more practical and functional.
Assessment and Evaluation Scheme for Years 2, 3 and 4
Alternative assessment and evaluation techniques and activities for primary school lessons are given below. 
There are different assessment and evaluation applications for each language skill. Teachers do not have to 
use all of the items in every lesson. They can be selected and used according to the needs and flow of the 
lesson.
1) Evaluating listening/watching and comprehension: Objective:  To listen/watch efficiently for 
comprehension to be able to engage in spoken language from people or technology-based digital 
audio-visual materials to be able to respond appropriately and meaningfully by using various strategies 
and techniques such as listening for/and imitating, repeating, saying, colouring, drawing, matching, 
underlining, circling, doing, imitating, listening for gist, for scanning, and so on. Indicators: Accurate 
understanding of the spoken content, responses to closed, semi-closed or open ended-questions 
in comprehension activities, successful participation and turn-taking in various listening activities. 
Frequency: At least once in a month, on a regular basis. Evaluation tools: An observation checklist 
and/or observation grids for monthly monitoring sessions. Evaluation/Assessment focus: Evaluation is 
based on effective comprehension, inference skills, understanding of the main idea, attention to details, 
general interpretation skills and successful engagement in communication by encoding and decoding 
the messages accurately and meaningfully.

===== PDF_PAGE_22 =====
22
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
2) Evaluating the use of pronunciation: Objective:  To pronounce the target sounds, words, and phrases 
accurately and appropriately in context. Indicators: Clarity in articulation of target sounds, and phrases, 
appropriate and correct intonation and stress patterns and improvement in pronunciation over time. 
Frequency: Regularly, once in a month. Evaluation tools: An observation checklist and/or observation 
grids for monthly monitoring sessions. Evaluation/Assessment focus: Evaluation is based on accurate 
pronunciation of words, phrases and sentences, accurate use of intonation and stress patterns when 
speaking to/with others in the communication process, by using a checklist with descriptors such 
as “clear”, “moderate”, “needs to improve” and by giving oral feedback or through written notes for 
observation and monitoring sessions.
3) Evaluating the use of the target vocabulary: Objective:  To select and use the target vocabulary 
accurately, meaningfully, and communicatively in context. Indicators: Accurate word choice, accurate 
and appropriate use of words, integration of vocabulary in speaking and writing tasks accurately 
and appropriately in context. Frequency: During or after observation and monitoring on a regular 
basis, every two months. Evaluation/Assessment tools: A checklist, a rating scale, and/or rubrics. 
Evaluation/Assessment focus: Evaluation is based on the performance in using the target vocabulary 
in collaborative and communicative activities such as role play, dialogues, show and tell presentations 
or individual activities such as talking about and/or writing words, phrases, and sentences taking part in 
vocabulary jigsaws etc. 
4) Evaluating vocabulary recording: Objective:  To create personalised paper or digital dictionaries with 
word-related information, including very short definitions, pictures and example sentences about 
the target vocabulary in context. Indicators: Regular entries with accurate spelling, meaningful 
explanations, and suitable pictures in relevance to the target content, organisation, meaningful content, 
continuity and order. Frequency: Every two months on a regular basis. Evaluation/Assessment tools: 
Oral and/or written feedback and a rubric scheme given to students in advance. Evaluation/Assessment 
focus: Evaluation is based on the categories such as accuracy, creativity, effort, completeness and 
organisation of the entries/submissions. 
5) Evaluating the use of target grammar: Objective:  Automatic selection and authentic, meaningful, 
and accurate use of the target language chunks in context. Indicators: Accurate and meaningful 
sentence structures in speaking and writing tasks, accurate and meaningful use of language chunks in 
communicative activities. Frequency: During and after observation and monitoring on a regular basis. 
Evaluation/Assessment tools: A checklist, rating scale, and/or rubrics. Evaluation/Assessment focus: 
Evaluation is based on categories and criteria created in evaluation tools as in the following examples: 
An example of a checklist could be as follows: a) Sentences are complete: YES /NO. b) Word order is 
logical and clear: Yes/No etc. An example of a rating scale with a 1-5 Likert scale could be as follows: (1) 
Errors interfere with meaning (2) Frequent errors, meaning is unclear (3) Errors are noticeable but do 
not interfere with meaning, (4) Minor errors, meaning is clear (5) Almost no errors. (An example language 
chunk (grammar) rubric table might include the following criteria and scores: 5 criteria could be used: 
accuracy, variety, consistency, structural control, appropriateness in the rubrics. They can be scored on 
4 levels: (1) poor, (2) needs improvement, (3) good, (4) excellent. For instance, there may be items such 
as (1) inconsistent use of target language chunks (grammar), (2) inconsistencies distract from clarity, (3) 
few inconsistencies in the use of the target language chunks (grammar) use, (4) using of target language 
chunks (grammar) is consistent throughout the task). 
6) Evaluating reading and comprehension skills: Objective:  To read efficiently for comprehension by 
using various strategies such as reading aloud, speed reading, and silent reading. Indicators: Accurate 
understanding of texts and context, successful participation in various reading activities, responses 
to closed (display), semi-closed and open-ended questions in comprehension activities, increasing 
performance in comprehension, recognition, and awareness skills. Frequency: At least once in a month, 
on a regular basis. Evaluation/Assessment tools: An observation checklist and/monitoring grids, a 
rating scale, and/or rubrics, closed, semi-closed and open-ended/communicative asking-answering 

===== PDF_PAGE_23 =====
23
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
exercises and activities on comprehension, recognition, and awareness. Evaluation/Assessment focus: 
Evaluation will be based on reading fluency, effective comprehension, ability/capability to infer meaning 
from the text, to be able to deduce ideas from the text. 
7) Evaluating speaking skills: Objective: To talk or give very short oral presentations and perform show and 
tell sessions on the current content by using meaningful and appropriate language in context. Indicators: 
Effective use of relevant and appropriate target vocabulary, pronunciation and target grammar; fluency; 
clear organisation; rapport with the audience and delivery. Frequency: During observation of speaking 
sessions. Evaluation/Assessment tools: Rubrics, a rating scale, and/or a checklist for observation and 
monitoring. Evaluation/Assessment focus: Evaluation will be based on fluency, coherence, accurate 
and meaningful use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and language chunks in context, 
audience engagement and successful participation in communication by encoding and decoding the 
messages accurately and meaningfully. 
8) Evaluating participation and engagement in dialogues: Objectives:  To take turns in dialogues 
meaningfully and efficiently by using relevant and appropriate target vocabulary and target language 
chunks (grammar) in context.  Indicators: Proper and accurate use of language with target vocabulary 
and language chunks in context, effective turn-taking, engagement and participation in teacher-
student and student-peer dialogues, correct and meaningful responses, clear explanations, engaging 
in effective and meaningful communication, Frequency: Regularly, during classroom activities. 
Evaluation/Assessment tools: An observation checklist and/or rubrics for observation and monitoring. 
Evaluation focus: Evaluation is based on observed and monitored pair-work interactions, collaboration, 
content relevance, accurate and meaningful use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and 
language chunks in context and successful engagement in communication process by encoding and 
decoding the messages accurately and meaningfully. 
9) Evaluating participation and engagement in group work: Objective: To collaborate and participate in 
group work activities meaningfully and efficiently by using relevant and appropriate target vocabulary, 
pronunciation, and language chunks in context. Indicators: Effective performance of roles, participation, 
contribution to group outcomes, efficient and effectively and meaningfully. Frequency: Monthly during 
and after observation and monitoring sessions. Evaluation/Assessment tools: An observation checklist, 
a rating scale, and/or rubrics. Evaluation/Assessment focus: Evaluation is based on collaboration, 
content relevance, accurate and meaningful use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and 
language chunks in context, and successful engagement in communication process by encoding and 
decoding the messages accurately and meaningfully. 
10) Evaluating participation and engagement in drama work and games: Objectives:  To present, engage 
in and participate in drama activities such as pantomime stories, role plays, plays and presentations 
by using effective and meaningful language with target vocabulary and/or the target language chunks 
through acting. Indicators: Engagement, creativity, rapport with the audience, accurate and meaningful 
use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and language chunks in context. Frequency: 
Monthly during and after observation and monitoring sessions. Evaluation/Assessment tools: Rubrics, 
a rating scale, and/ or a checklist. Evaluation/ Assessment focus: Evaluation is based on collaboration, 
content relevance, accurate and meaningful use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and 
language chunks in context, presentation skills, successful engagement in communication process by 
encoding and decoding the messages accurately and meaningfully. 
11) Evaluating self-productions: Objective: To prepare and produce personal products such as paper/digital 
diaries/journals, voice recordings, visual recording, projects, portfolios, short films, documentaries, 
scenarios, blogs, vlogs and so on related to the target theme including the use of target vocabulary, 
pronunciation, and language chunks at school and at home, and to present them to the class at school. 
Indicators: Content relevance, meaningful and accurate use of language with target vocabulary, 
pronunciation, and language chunks in context, accurate, efficient and effective use of supplementary 
materials. Frequency:  Monthly during and after observation and monitoring sessions. Evaluation/

===== PDF_PAGE_24 =====
24
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Assessment tools: Rubrics, a rating scale, a written feedback report and/ or a checklist. Evaluation/ 
Assessment focus: Evaluation is based on material preparation skills, creativity, organisation, content 
relevance, coherence, presentation skills, effort, originality, accurate and meaningful use of language 
with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and language chunks, and effective communication process.
12) Evaluating writing skills: Objective:  To produce written tasks by developing portfolios including 
phrases, sentences, short texts, notes, paragraphs, simple fact files, emails, messages, plans, 
timetables, projects, reflective diaries/journals, posters, etc., by using target vocabulary and language 
chunks meaningfully and accurately. Indicators: Engagement, creativity, coherence, content relevancy, 
accurate and meaningful use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and language chunks 
in context, effective presentation skills. Frequency: Every two weeks. Evaluation/Assessment tools: 
Rubrics or a marking scheme. Evaluation/Assessment focus: Evaluation will be based on organisation, 
creativity, originality, effort, content relevance, accurate and meaningful use of language with target 
vocabulary and language chunks, and presentation skills.
Assessment and Evaluation Scheme for Years 5 and 6
Alternative assessment and evaluation techniques and activities for lower secondary lessons (Years 5 
and 6) are given below. There are different assessment and evaluation applications for each language skill. 
Teachers do not have to use all of the items in every lesson. They can be selected and used according to the 
needs and flow of the lesson.
1) Evaluating listening/watching and comprehension:  Objective: To listen/watch efficiently for 
comprehension to be able to engage in spoken language from people or technology-based digital audio-
visual materials to be able to respond appropriately and meaningfully by using various strategies and 
techniques such as listening for/and imitating, repeating, saying, matching, underlining, circling, doing, 
listening for gist, for scanning, for answering, for asking, for conversing and so on. Indicators: Accurate 
understanding of the spoken content, responses to closed, semi-closed or open ended-questions 
in comprehension activities, successful participation and turn-taking in various listening activities. 
Frequency: At least once in a month, on a regular basis. Evaluation tools: An observation checklist and/
or observation grids for monthly monitoring sessions. Evaluation/Assessment Focus: Evaluation is 
based on effective comprehension, inference skills, understanding of the main idea, attention to details, 
general interpretation skills and successful engagement in communication by encoding and decoding 
the messages in collaborative environments accurately and meaningfully.
2) Evaluating the use of pronunciation: Objective:  To pronounce the target sounds, words, and phrases 
accurately and appropriately in context. Indicators: Clarity in articulation of target sounds, and phrases, 
appropriate and correct intonation and stress patterns and improvement in pronunciation over time.  
Frequency: Regularly, once in a month. Evaluation tools: An observation checklist and/or observation 
grids for monthly monitoring sessions. Evaluation/Assessment Focus: Evaluation is based on accurate 
pronunciation of words, phrases and sentences, accurate use of intonation and stress patterns when 
speaking to/with others in the communication process, by using a checklist with descriptors such 
as “clear”, “moderate”, “needs to improve” and by giving oral feedback or through written notes for 
observation and monitoring sessions. 
3) Evaluating the use of the target vocabulary: Objective:  To select and use the target vocabulary 
accurately, meaningfully, and communicatively in context. Indicators: Accurate word choice, accurate 
and appropriate use of words, integration of vocabulary in speaking and writing tasks accurately 
and appropriately in context. Frequency: During or after observation and monitoring on a regular 
basis, every two months. Evaluation/Assessment tools: A checklist, a rating scale, and/or rubrics. 
Evaluation/Assessment Focus: Evaluation is based on the performance in using the target vocabulary 
in collaborative and communicative activities such as role play, dialogues, show and tell presentations 
or individual activities such as talking about and/or writing words, phrases, and sentences taking part in 
vocabulary jigsaws etc. 

===== PDF_PAGE_25 =====
25
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
4) Evaluating vocabulary recording: Objective: To create personalised paper or digital dictionaries 
with word-related information, including words, short definitions, pictures and example sentences 
about the target vocabulary in context. Indicators: Regular entries with accurate spelling, meaningful 
explanations, and suitable pictures in relevance to the target content, organisation, meaningful content, 
continuity and order. Frequency: Every two months on a regular basis. Evaluation/Assessment tools: 
Oral and/or written feedback and a rubric scheme given to students in advance. Evaluation/Assessment 
Focus: Evaluation is based on the categories such as accuracy, creativity, effort, completeness and 
organisation of the entries/submissions. 
5) Evaluating the use of target grammar: Objective:  Automatic selection and authentic, meaningful, 
and accurate use of the target language chunks through recognition in context. Indicators: Accurate 
and meaningful sentence structures in speaking and writing tasks, accurate and meaningful use of 
language chunks in communicative activities. Frequency: During and after observation and monitoring 
on a regular basis. Evaluation/Assessment tools: A checklist, rating scale, and/or rubrics. Evaluation/
Assessment Focus: Evaluation is based on categories and criteria created in evaluation tools as in the 
following examples: An example of a checklist could be as follows: a) Sentences are complete: YES /
NO. b) Word order is logical and clear: Yes/No etc. An example of a rating scale with a 1-5 Likert scale 
could be as follows: (1) Errors interfere with meaning (2) Frequent errors, meaning is unclear (3) Errors 
are noticeable but do not interfere with meaning, (4) Minor errors, meaning is clear (5) Almost no errors). 
(An example language chunk (grammar) rubric table might include the following criteria and scores: 5 
criteria could be used: accuracy, variety, consistency, structural control, appropriateness in the rubrics. 
They can be scored on 4 levels: (1) poor, (2) needs improvement, (3) good, (4) excellent. For instance, 
there may be items such as (1) inconsistent use of target language chunks (grammar), (2) inconsistencies 
distract from clarity, (3) few inconsistencies in the use of the target language chunks (grammar) use, (4) 
using of target language chunks (grammar) is consistent throughout the task).
6) Evaluating reading and comprehension skills: Objective:  To read efficiently for comprehension 
by using various strategies such as reading aloud, speed reading, silent reading, and jigsaw reading.  
Indicators: Accurate understanding of texts and context, successful participation in various reading 
activities, responses to closed (display), semi-closed and open-ended questions in comprehension 
activities, increasing performance in comprehension, recognition, and awareness skills. Frequency: At 
least once in a month, on a regular basis. Evaluation/Assessment tools: An observation checklist and/
monitoring grids, a rating scale, and/or rubrics, closed, semi-closed and open-ended/communicative 
asking-answering exercises and activities on comprehension, recognition, and awareness. Evaluation/
Assessment Focus: Evaluation will be based on reading fluency, effective comprehension, ability/
capability to infer meaning from the text, to be able to deduce ideas from the text. 
7) Evaluating speaking skills: Objective: To talk or give short oral presentations and perform show and tell 
sessions on the current content by using meaningful and appropriate language in context. Indicators: 
Effective use of relevant and appropriate target vocabulary, pronunciation and target grammar; fluency; 
clear organisation; rapport with the audience and delivery. F requency: During observation of speaking 
sessions. Evaluation/Assessment tools: Rubrics, a rating scale, and/or a checklist for observation and 
monitoring. Evaluation/Assessment Focus: Evaluation will be based on fluency, coherence, accurate 
and meaningful use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and language chunks in context, 
audience engagement and successful participation in communication by encoding and decoding the 
messages accurately and meaningfully. 
8) Evaluating participation and engagement in dialogues: Objectives:  To take turns in dialogues 
meaningfully and efficiently by using relevant and appropriate target vocabulary and target language 
chunks (grammar) in context. Indicators: Proper and accurate use of language with target vocabulary 
and language chunks in context, effective turn-taking, engagement and participation in teacher-
student and student-peer dialogues, correct and meaningful responses, clear explanations, engaging 
in effective and meaningful communication, Frequency: Regularly, during classroom activities. 

===== PDF_PAGE_26 =====
26
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Evaluation/Assessment tools: An observation checklist and/or rubrics for observation and monitoring. 
Evaluation Focus: Evaluation is based on observed and monitored pair-work interactions, collaboration, 
content relevance, accurate and meaningful use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and 
language chunks in context and successful engagement in communication process by encoding and 
decoding the messages accurately and meaningfully. 
9) Evaluating participation and engagement in group work: Objective:  To collaborate and participate in 
group work activities meaningfully and efficiently by using relevant and appropriate target vocabulary, 
pronunciation, and language chunks in context. Indicators: Effective performance of roles, participation, 
contribution to group outcomes, efficient and effectively and meaningfully. Frequency: Monthly during 
and after observation and monitoring sessions. Evaluation/Assessment tools: An observation checklist, 
a rating scale, and/or rubrics. Evaluation/Assessment Focus: Evaluation is based on collaboration, 
content relevance, accurate and meaningful use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and 
language chunks in context, and successful engagement in communication process by encoding and 
decoding the messages accurately and meaningfully. 
10) Evaluating participation and engagement in drama work: Objectives:  To present, engage in and 
participate in drama activities such as pantomime stories, role plays, plays and presentations by using 
effective and meaningful language with target vocabulary and/or the target language chunks through 
acting. Indicators: Engagement, creativity, rapport with the audience, accurate and meaningful use of 
language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and language chunks in context. Frequency: Monthly 
during and after observation and monitoring sessions. Evaluation/Assessment tools: Rubrics, a rating 
scale, and/ or a checklist. Evaluation/Assessment Focus: Evaluation is based on collaboration, content 
relevance, accurate and meaningful use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and language 
chunks in context, presentation skills, successful engagement in communication process by encoding 
and decoding the messages accurately and meaningfully.
11) Evaluating self-productions: Objective: To prepare and produce personal products such as posters, 
digital e-books, cartoons, audio recordings, paper/digital diaries/journals, voice recordings, visual 
recording, projects, portfolios, short films, documentaries, scenarios, blogs, vlogs and so on related to 
the target theme including the use of target vocabulary, pronunciation, and language chunks at school 
and at home, and to present them to the class at school. Indicators: Content relevance, meaningful 
and accurate use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and language chunks in context, 
accurate, efficient and effective use of supplementary materials. Frequency: Monthly during and after 
observation and monitoring sessions. Evaluation/Assessment tools: Rubrics, a rating scale, a written 
feedback report and/ or a checklist. Evaluation/Assessment Focus: Evaluation is based on material 
preparation skills, creativity, organisation, content relevance, coherence, presentation skills, effort, 
originality, accurate and meaningful use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and language 
chunks, and effective communication process.
12) Evaluating writing skills: Objective: To produce written tasks by developing portfolios including phrases, 
sentences, short texts, notes, paragraphs, simple fact files, emails, messages, plans, timetables, 
projects, reflective diaries/journals, poems, acrostics, posters, etc., by using target vocabulary and 
language chunks meaningfully and accurately. Indicators: Engagement, creativity, coherence, content 
relevancy, accurate and meaningful use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and language 
chunks in context, effective presentation skills. Frequency: Every two weeks. Evaluation/Assessment 
tools: Rubrics or a marking scheme. Evaluation/Assessment Focus: Evaluation will be based on 
organisation, creativity, originality, effort, content relevance, accurate and meaningful use of language 
with target vocabulary and language chunks, and presentation skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_27 =====
27
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Assessment and Evaluation Scheme for Years 7 and 8
Alternative assessment and evaluation techniques and activities for lower secondary lessons (Years 7 
and 8) are given below. There are different assessment and evaluation applications for each language skill. 
Teachers do not have to use all of the items in every lesson. They can be selected and used according to the 
needs and flow of the lesson. 
1) Evaluating listening/watching and comprehension: Objective:  To listen/watch efficiently for 
comprehension to be able to engage in spoken language from people or technology-based digital audio-
visual materials to develop critical thinking skills by using various strategies and techniques such as 
listening for gist, listening for scanning, dictation, listening and note taking, collaborative discussions 
and so on.  Indicators:  Accurate understanding of the spoken content, responses to closed, semi-
closed or open-ended questions in comprehension activities, successful participation and turn taking 
in various listening activities. Frequency: At least once in a month, on a regular basis. Evaluation 
tools: An observation checklist and/or observation grids for monthly monitoring sessions. Evaluation/
Assessment focus: Evaluation is based on effective comprehension, inference skills, understanding of 
the main idea, attention to details, interpretation skills and successful engagement in communication 
by encoding and decoding the messages accurately and meaningfully.
2) Evaluating the use of pronunciation: Objective: To pronounce the target sounds, words, and phrases 
accurately and appropriately in context. Indicators: Clarity in articulation of target sounds, and phrases, 
appropriate and correct intonation and stress patterns and improvement in pronunciation over time. 
Frequency: Regularly, once in a month. Evaluation tools: An observation checklist and/or observation 
grids for monthly monitoring sessions. Evaluation/Assessment focus: Evaluation is based on accurate 
pronunciation of words, phrases and sentences, accurate use of intonation and stress patterns when 
speaking to/with others in the communication process, by using a checklist with descriptors such 
as “clear”, “moderate”, “needs to improve” and by giving oral feedback or through written notes for 
observation and monitoring sessions.
3) Evaluating the use of the target vocabulary: Objective:  To select and use the target vocabulary 
accurately, meaningfully, and communicatively in context. Indicators: Accurate word choice, accurate 
and appropriate use of word types such as antonyms, synonyms, and word forms, integration of 
vocabulary in speaking and writing tasks accurately and appropriately in context. Frequency: During or 
after observation and monitoring on a regular basis, every two months. Evaluation/Assessment tools: 
A checklist, a rating scale, and/or rubrics. Evaluation/Assessment focus: Evaluation is based on the 
performance in using the target vocabulary in collaborative and communicative activities such as role 
play, dialogues, discussions, debates, presentations or individual activities such as writing paragraphs, 
stories, poems, summaries, fact files and taking part in vocabulary jigsaws, etc.
4) Evaluating vocabulary recording: Objective: To create personalised paper or digital dictionaries with 
word-related information, including definitions, antonyms, synonyms, word structure, etc. about the 
target vocabulary in context. Indicators: Regular entries with accurate definitions, antonyms, synonyms, 
relevance to the target content, organisation, meaningful content, continuity and order. Frequency: 
Every two months on a regular basis. Evaluation/Assessment tools: Oral and/or written feedback and 
a rubric scheme given to students in advance. Evaluation/Assessment focus: Evaluation is based 
on the categories such as accuracy, creativity, effort, completeness and organisation of the entries/
submissions.
5) Evaluating the use of target grammar: Objective:  Selecting and using the target grammar accurately 
and meaningfully in context. Indicators: Accurate and meaningful sentence structures in speaking and 
writing tasks, accurate and meaningful use of grammar in communicative activities. Frequency: During 
and after observation and monitoring on a regular basis. Evaluation/Assessment tools: A checklist, 
rating scale, and/or rubrics. Evaluation/Assessment focus: Evaluation is based on categories and criteria 
created in evaluation tools as in the following examples: An example of a checklist could be as follows: a) 
Sentences are complete: YES /NO. b) Word order is logical and clear: Yes/No etc. An example of a rating 

===== PDF_PAGE_28 =====
28
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
scale with a 1-5 Likert scale could be as follows: (1) Errors interfere with meaning (2) Frequent errors, 
meaning is unclear (3) Errors are noticeable but do not interfere with meaning, (4) Minor errors, meaning 
is clear (5) Almost no errors). (An example grammar rubric table might include the following criteria and 
scores: 5 criteria could be used: accuracy, variety, consistency, structural control, appropriateness in 
the rubrics. They can be scored on 4 levels: (1) poor, (2) needs improvement, (3) good, (4) excellent. For 
instance, there may be items such as (1) inconsistent use of grammar, (2) inconsistencies distract from 
clarity, (3) few inconsistencies in grammar use, (4) grammar is consistent throughout the task).
6) Evaluating reading and comprehension skills: Objective:  To read efficiently for comprehension 
by using various strategies such as reading aloud, speed reading, silent reading, and jigsaw reading. 
Indicators: Accurate understanding of texts and context, successful participation in various reading 
activities, responses to closed (display), semi-closed and open-ended questions in comprehension 
activities, increasing performance in paraphrasing, summarising, interpreting, deducing and critical 
thinking skills. Frequency: At least once in a month, on a regular basis. Evaluation/Assessment tools: 
An observation checklist and/monitoring grids, a rating scale, and/or rubrics, closed, semi-closed and 
open-ended/communicative asking-answering exercises and activities, paraphrasing, summarising and 
deducing sessions. Evaluation/Assessment focus: Evaluation will be based on reading fluency, effective 
comprehension, ability/capability to infer meaning from the text, to interpret text, and to generate critical 
thinking from the text.
7) Evaluating speaking skills: Objective: To talk or give oral presentations on the current content by using 
meaningful and appropriate language in context.  Indicators: Effective use of relevant and appropriate 
target vocabulary, pronunciation and target grammar; fluency; clear organisation; rapport with the 
audience and delivery. Frequency: During observation of presentation sessions. Evaluation/Assessment 
tools: Rubrics, a rating scale, and/or a checklist for observation and monitoring. Evaluation/Assessment 
focus: Evaluation will be based on fluency, coherence, accurate and meaningful use of language with 
target vocabulary, pronunciation, and grammar in context, audience engagement and successful 
participation in communication by encoding and decoding the messages accurately and meaningfully.
8) Evaluating participation and engagement in dialogues: Objectives:  To take turns in dialogues 
meaningfully and efficiently by using relevant and appropriate target vocabulary and grammar in 
context. Indicators:  Proper and accurate use of language with target vocabulary and grammar in 
context, effective turn-taking, engagement and participation in teacher-student and student-peer 
dialogues, correct and meaningful responses, clear explanations, engaging in effective and meaningful 
communication. Frequency: Regularly, during classroom activities. Evaluation/ Assessment tools: An 
observation checklist and/or rubrics for observation and monitoring. Evaluation/Assessment focus: 
Evaluation is based on observed and monitored pair work interactions, collaboration, content relevance, 
accurate and meaningful use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and grammar in context 
and successful engagement in communication process by encoding and decoding the messages 
accurately and meaningfully.
9) Evaluating participation and engagement in group work: Objective:  To collaborate and participate 
group work activities meaningfully and efficiently by using relevant and appropriate target vocabulary, 
pronunciation, and grammar in context. Indicators: Effective performance of roles, participation, 
contribution to group outcomes, efficient and effectively and meaningfully. Frequency: Monthly during 
and after observation and monitoring sessions. Evaluation/Assessment tools: An observation checklist, 
a rating scale, and/or rubrics. Evaluation/Assessment focus: Evaluation is based on collaboration, 
content relevance, accurate and meaningful use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and 
grammar in context, and successful engagement in communication process by encoding and decoding 
the messages accurately and meaningfully.
10) Evaluating participation and engagement in drama work: Objectives: To present, engage in and 
participate in drama activities such as pantomime stories, role plays, plays and presentations by using 
effective and meaningful language with target vocabulary and/or the target grammar through acting.  

===== PDF_PAGE_29 =====
29
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Indicators: Engagement, creativity, rapport with the audience, accurate and meaningful use of language 
with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and grammar in context. Frequency: Monthly during and after 
observation and monitoring sessions. Evaluation/Assessment tools: Rubrics, a rating scale, and/ or 
a checklist. Evaluation/Assessment focus: Evaluation is based on collaboration, content relevance, 
accurate and meaningful use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and grammar in context, 
presentation skills, successful engagement in communication process by encoding and decoding the 
messages accurately and meaningfully.
11) Evaluating self-productions: Objective: To prepare and produce personal products such as digital diaries/
journals, voice recordings, visual recording, projects, portfolios, short films, documentaries, scenarios, 
blogs, vlogs and so on related to the target theme including the use of target vocabulary, pronunciation, 
and grammar at school and at home, and to present them to the class at school. Indicators: Content 
relevance, meaningful and accurate use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and grammar 
in context, accurate, efficient and effective use of supplementary materials. Frequency: Monthly during 
and after observation and monitoring sessions. Evaluation/ Assessment tools: Rubrics, a rating scale, 
a written feedback report and/ or a checklist. Evaluation/Assessment focus: Evaluation is based on 
material preparation skills, creativity, organisation, content relevance, coherence, presentation skills, 
effort, originality, accurate and meaningful use of language with target vocabulary, pronunciation, and 
grammar, and effective communication process.
12) Evaluating writing skills: Objective:  To produce written tasks by developing portfolios including 
sentences, short texts, notes, paragraphs, essays, letters, reviews, response papers, fact files, emails, 
messages, plans, programmes, timetables, projects, reflective diaries/journals, posters, etc., by using 
target vocabulary and grammar meaningfully and accurately. Indicators: Engagement, creativity, 
coherence, content relevancy, accurate and meaningful use of language with target vocabulary, 
pronunciation, and grammar in context, effective presentation skills. Frequency: Every two weeks. 
Evaluation/Assessment tools: Rubrics or a marking scheme. Evaluation/Assessment focus: Evaluation 
will be based on organisation, creativity, originality, effort, content relevance, accurate and meaningful 
use of language with target vocabulary and grammar, and presentation skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_30 =====
30
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
1.3. THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM: THEMES, LEARNING OUTCOMES, AND TIMETABLES  
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION 
YEAR 2 (LEVEL: A1.1)
Basic Themes Sub-themes
Number of 
Learning 
Outcomes
Time
Class 
Hours
Percentages 
(%)
1. SCHOOL LIFE
- Greetings and introductions at school
- People and places at school
- Days of the week
-  National and religious days and 
celebrations
23 11 15.28
2. CLASSROOM LIFE
- Classroom instructions and language
- Classroom furniture, devices, and objects
- Colours
23 11 15.28
3. PERSONAL LIFE
- Parts of the body and physical features
- Clothes
- Days of the week, ages, and birthdays
-Weather conditions
23 11 15.28
4. FAMILY LIFE
-  Family members and family members’ 
physical appearances and physical 
features
23 11 15.28
5.  HOMES & HOUSES & 
NEIGHBOURHOODS
- Parts, rooms, and furniture in the house
- Pets in the house 23 11 15.28
6.  LIFE IN THE CITY & THE 
WORLD -Basic food types, items, and meals 23 11 15.28
ORIENTATION - 2  2.78
REVISION PROGRAMME - - -
EV ALUATION AND ASSESSMENT - - -
SCHOOL-BASED PLANNING* - 4  5.56
TOTAL 138 72  100

===== PDF_PAGE_31 =====
31
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
YEAR 3 (LEVEL: A1.2)
Basic Themes Sub-themes
Number of 
Learning 
Outcomes
Time
Class 
Hours
Percentages 
(%)
1. SCHOOL LIFE
-  Greetings and introductions at school: 
People and places at school
- Months of the year
- Ages and birthday celebrations
- National days and celebrations
23 10 13.89
2. CLASSROOM LIFE
-  Classroom instructions and language
- Classroom furniture, objects, and devices 
- School subjects
- Seasons of the year
23 10 13.89
3. PERSONAL LIFE
-  Parts of the body and physical features
- Personal characters
- Weather conditions
-  Clothing according to seasons and weather 
conditions 
-  Preferences for clothing
23 10 13.89
4. FAMILY LIFE
- Family members 
- Ages of family members
- Daily routines and chores of family 
members
- Hobbies and abilities of family members
23 10 13.89
5.  HOMES & HOUSES & 
NEIGHBOURHOODS
- Life in the countryside
- Farmhouses and farm animals
- Activities and chores on a farm
23 10 13.89
6.  LIFE IN THE CITY & THE 
WORLD
- Food items and meals
- Eating outside and ordering food 23 10
ORIENTATION - 4 5.56
REVISION PROGRAMME - 4 5.56
EV ALUATION AND ASSESSMENT - - -
SCHOOL-BASED PLANNING* - 4 5.56
TOTAL 138 72 100

===== PDF_PAGE_32 =====
32
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
• This is the amount of time for the studies (out-of-school learning activities, research and observation, social 
activities, project studies, local studies, reading studies, etc.) decided to be carried out within the scope of the 
course by the English Language Departments. The time allocated for these studies is planned during the academic 
year and displayed in yearly plans. Within the scope of school-based planning, the lesson hours determined at the 
relevant class level are used to guide students to be able to do plans and carry out studies to contribute to their 
academic and personal development.
YEAR 4 (LEVEL: A1.3)
Basic Themes Sub-themes
Number of 
Learning 
Outcomes
Time
Class 
Hours
Percentages 
(%)
1. SCHOOL LIFE
- People at school
- Daily routines and activities at school
-  Activities at present and favourite 
activities
- Favourite months
-National days and celebrations
23 10 13.89
2. CLASSROOM LIFE
- School subjects and classroom activities
-  Favourite school subjects and classroom 
activities now and in the past  
-  Time, seasons of the year, favourite 
seasons
23 10 13.89
3. PERSONAL LIFE
- Physical appearances and personality 
- Clothing and clothing preferences
- Hobbies and abilities now and in the past
- Weather
- Comparisons
23 10 13.89
4. FAMILY LIFE 
- Family members’ jobs
- Family members’ long-lasting habits
- Family members’ errands (now and in the 
past)
- Places for services in the neighbourhood
- Comparisons
23 10 13.89
5.  HOMES & HOUSES & 
THE NEIGHBOURHOOD
- Life on the seaside
- Sea/marine animals and their habitats
- Activities of sea/marine animals
- Dangers for sea/marine animals
- Types of houses by the water
23 10 13.89
6.  LIFE IN THE CITY & THE 
WORLD
- Healthy and unhealthy food
- National and international dishes
- Countries
- Holidays
23 10 13.89
ORIENTATION - 4 5.56
REVISION PROGRAMME - 4 5.56
EV ALUATION AND ASSESSMENT - - -
SCHOOL-BASED PLANNING* - 4 5.56
TOTAL 138 72 100

===== PDF_PAGE_33 =====
33
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM FOR LOWER SECONDARY EDUCATION 
YEAR 5 (LEVEL: A2.1)
Basic Themes Sub-themes
Number of 
Learning 
Outcomes
Time
Class 
Hours
Percentages 
(%)
1. SCHOOL LIFE
- People, places, and rules at school
- School clubs
- Countries
- National days and celebrations
23 10 9.26
2. CLASSROOM LIFE
- Classroom rules and language
- School subjects
- Timetables
- Classroom objects
- Days of the week
- Time
23 10 9.26
3. PERSONAL LIFE
- Basic body parts and physical features
- Clothes
- Daily routines and activities
23 10 9.26
4. FAMILY LIFE - Family members’ routines 
- Family members’ hobbies and activities 23 10 9.26
5.  LIFE IN THE 
NEIGHBOURHOOD & 
CITY
- Places for recreation and attractions in 
the neighbourhood and city
- Different types of houses
23 10 9.26
6.  LIFE IN THE WORLD
- Basic food types
- Ordering in a restaurant
- Food events in the city
23 10 9.26
7. LIFE IN NATURE
- Types of animals in nature
- Wild animals in nature
- Their habitats
23 10 9.26
8.  LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE 
& FUTURE
- Planet Earth
- Holidays
-  School holidays, places, activities, and 
plans for holidays
23 10 9.26
ORIENTATION - 4 3.70
REVISION PROGRAMME - 4 11.11
EV ALUATION AND ASSESSMENT - 6 5.56
SCHOOL-BASED PLANNING* - 6 5.56
TOTAL 138 108 100

===== PDF_PAGE_34 =====
34
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
YEAR 6 (LEVEL: A2.2)
Basic Themes Sub-themes
Number of 
Learning 
Outcomes
Time
Class 
Hours
Percentages 
(%)
1. SCHOOL LIFE
- Roles and responsibilities at school
- School routines
- National days and celebrations
23 10 9.26
2. CLASSROOM LIFE
- Daily and study routines 
- Learning activities in the classroom
- Cardinal numbers 100-500
- Ordinal numbers 1-50
23 10 9.26
3. PERSONAL LIFE
-  Body parts, physical appearance and 
clothes
- Personality and character
23 10 9.26
4. FAMILY LIFE 
-  Family members’ jobs, working places, 
and job routines
-  Different types of family homes and 
houses
23 10 9.26
5.  LIFE IN THE 
NEIGHBOURHOOD & 
CITY
-  Festivals and events in the neighbourhood 
and city
-  Transportation in the neighbourhood and 
the city
23 10 9.26
6.  LIFE IN THE WORLD & 
CULTURE
-  Countries, nationalities, and languages 
in the world, food types and events from 
different parts of the world
23 10 9.26
7.  LIFE IN NATURE & 
GLOBAL PROBLEMS
- Activities in nature
-  Environmental problems in the world and 
solutions
23 10 9.26
8.  LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE 
& FUTURE
- Planets and the Earth as a planet
- Life on Earth in the future 23 10 9.26
ORIENTATION - 4 3.70
REVISION PROGRAMME - 12 11.11
EV ALUATION AND ASSESSMENT - 6 5.56
SCHOOL-BASED PLANNING* - 6 5.56
TOTAL 184 108 100

===== PDF_PAGE_35 =====
35
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
YEAR 7 (LEVEL: A2.3)
Basic Themes Sub-themes
Number of 
Learning 
Outcomes
Time
Class 
Hours
Percentages 
(%)
1.  SCHOOL LIFE & 
EDUCATION
- Extra-curricular activities at school
- Competitions and celebrations at school
- National days and celebrations
24 14  9.72
2.  CLASSROOM LIFE & 
LEARNING
- Technological tools for learning 
- Learning activities in the classroom
- Cardinal numbers (500-1000)
- Ordinal numbers 50-100
24 14 9.72
3.  PERSONAL LIFE & 
WELL-BEING
-  Body parts, illnesses, and keeping good 
health 
- The place of technology in people’s lives
24 14 9.72
4. FAMILY LIFE & HOME
-  Family members’ hobbies (sports, books, 
films, music, cooking)
-  Generation gap in the family: problems 
and solutions
24 14 9.72
5.  LIFE IN THE 
NEIGHBOURHOOD & 
CITY AND SOCIAL LIFE
-  Public services in the neighbourhood and 
city
- Life in different kinds of cities
24 14 9.72
6.  LIFE IN THE WORLD & 
CULTURE
-  Capitals, landmarks, famous places, and 
activities in capitals 
-  Sports events in different parts of the 
world
24 14 9.72
7.  LIFE IN NATURE - Animals and natural resources in nature
- Protecting animals and nature 24 14 9.72
8.  LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE 
& FUTURE
- Space technology
- Life in the future with robots 24 14 9.72
ORIENTATION - 4 2.78
REVISION PROGRAMME - 16 11.11
EV ALUATION AND ASSESSMENT - 6 4.17
SCHOOL-BASED PLANNING* - 6 4.17
TOTAL 192 144 100

===== PDF_PAGE_36 =====
36
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
• The time allocated for the studies (out-of-school learning activities, research and observation, social activities, 
project studies, local studies, reading studies, etc.) decided to be carried out within the scope of the course 
by the English Language Departments. The time allocated for studies is planned during the academic year and 
displayed in yearly plans. Within the scope of school-based planning, the lesson hours determined at all levels of 
English Language Programme for Lower Secondary Education are used to guide students to be able to do plans 
and carry out studies to contribute to their academic and personal development.
YEAR 8 (LEVEL: A2.4)
Basic Themes Sub-themes
Number of 
Learning 
Outcomes
Time
Class 
Hours
Percentages 
(%)
1.  SCHOOL LIFE & 
EDUCATION
-  School events and celebrations (sports, 
music, drama)
- Developing the environment
- National days and celebrations
24 14 9.72
2.  CLASSROOM LIFE & 
LEARNING
-  Preferences for different learning 
activities
-  Preferences for different learning 
technologies
24 14 9.72
3.  PERSONAL LIFE & 
WELL-BEING
-  Mobile phones and their impact on health 
and social life
- Personal preferences for films and visual 
arts
24 14 9.72
4. FAMILY LIFE & HOME
-  Relationships, problems, and solutions in 
the family
-Different houses and living styles
24 14 9.72
5.  LIFE IN THE 
NEIGHBOURHOOD & 
CITY & SOCIAL LIFE
- Sports events in the city and rural areas
-  Pros and cons of living in rural areas and 
in the city
24 14 9.72
6.  LIFE IN THE WORLD 
AND CULTURE
-  Different cooking styles and preferences 
in the world
- Different food cultures in the world
24 14 9.72
7.  LIFE IN NATURE & 
GLOBAL PROBLEMS
-  Natural disasters and their damage on 
animals and nature
-  Natural disasters and their damage on 
people’s lives
24 14 9.72
8.  LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE 
& FUTURE
- Transport in the future
- Self-driving cars
- Flying vehicles in the future
24 14 9.72
ORIENTATION - 4 2.78
REVISION PROGRAMME - 16 11.11
EV ALUATION AND ASSESSMENT - 6 4.17
SCHOOL-BASED PLANNING* - 6 4.17
TOTAL 192 144 100

===== PDF_PAGE_37 =====
37
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
1.4. ENGLISH COURSEBOOKS FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION/SCHOOLS- FORM NUMBERS AND BOOK SIZES
1.5.  ENGLISH COURSEBOOKS FOR LOWER SECONDARY EDUCATION/SCHOOLS- FORM NUMBERS AND 
BOOK SIZES
• The number of forms here indicates the minimum and maximum limits but they can be changed.
• The number of forms here indicates the minimum and maximum limits but they can be changed.
COURSEBOOKS PAGE NUMBERS 
FOR EACH THEME FORM NUMBERS * BOOK SIZES
COURSEBOOK
ENGLISH-YEARS 
2-3-4
16 X 6 10-14 19,5 cm X 27,5 cm
WORKBOOK  
ENGLISH-YEARS 
2-3-4
8 X 6 3-7 19,5 cm X 27,5 cm
TEACHER’S BOOK
ENGLISH-YEARS 
2-3-4
16 X 6 10-14 19,5 cm X 27,5 cm
COURSEBOOKS PAGE NUMBERS 
FOR EACH THEME FORM NUMBERS * BOOK SIZES
COURSEBOOK
ENGLISH-YEARS 
5-6-7-8
14 X 8 10-14 19,5 cm X 27,5 cm
WORKBOOK  
ENGLISH-YEARS 
5-6-7-8
6 X 8 4-8 19,5 cm X 27,5 cm
TEACHER’S BOOK
ENGLISH-YEARS 
5-6-7-8
14 X 8 10-14 19,5 cm X 27,5 cm

===== PDF_PAGE_38 =====
38
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
1.6. STRUCTURE OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
 The English Language Curriculum has a theme-based foundation and has been designed to be applied in 
these programmes: Primary Education, years 2-3-4; Lower Secondary Education, years 5-6-7-8; Upper 
Secondary Education, years 9-10-11,12; Multilingual Foreign Language Education Model, Lower Secondary 
Education, years 5-6-7-8; Upper Secondary Education with Preparatory Year and years 9-10-11-12. The 
thematic sequence of The English Language Curriculum is based on 8 main themes and each main theme 
is divided into at least three or two sub-themes and the content details are constructed accordingly. The 
structure of the themes and the explanations related to this structure are presented below in a systematic 
nature.
THEME 1: SCHOOL LIFE
This theme is centred on the concept of “school 
life” and covers the sub-themes of “greetings and 
introductions at school; people and places at school; 
days of the week; national days and celebrations”.
CLASS HOURS 10
FIELD SKILLS AND
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, 
D1.3.Perseverance and Determination,  
D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness,  
D2.4. Trust, D2.5. Playfulness, D3.2. Focus,  
D3.5. Open Mindedness, D3.7. Being Systematic
INTERCURRICULAR
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-
Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-Reflection Skill 
SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation 
Skill, SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill,
Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty,  
V7. Aesthetics, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence,  
V12. Patience, V14. Respect, V15. Love and Affection,  
V18.Cleanliness, V19. Patriotism, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy,  
LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic 
Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Life Study/ Science of Life, Visual Arts, 
Music, Physical Education and Games
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, 
CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, 
CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison 
Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, 
CS2.10. Inference Skill,
Represents the name of 
the theme.
Refers to the explanation 
of the knowledge and 
skills intended to be 
learned in the theme.
Indicates the duration of 
theme.
Refers to skills that are 
structured specifically 
for the discipline. Refers to basic skills 
that are acquired and 
observed without 
requiring a complex 
process, and integrated 
and higher-order 
thinking skills that 
emerge as a product of 
mental activities while 
transforming abstract 
ideas and complex 
processes into action.
Refers to the mental 
patterns related to 
the use of the skills 
possessed in necessary 
situations in line with 
intention, sensitivity, 
willingness and 
evaluation.
Refers to the set of 
knowledge, skills, and 
dispositions necessary 
to manage emotions, 
empathise, establish 
supportive relationships 
and develop a healthy 
self.
Refers to the social-
emotional learning skills, 
values and literacy skills 
that are associated with 
the teaching-learning 
process.
Refers to national and 
spiritual values along 
with human values.
Refers to the skills that 
enable us to adapt to new 
situations, recognise 
change, and apply 
developing technological 
innovations in daily life.Refers to the association 
of knowledge and 
skills from different 
interconnected 
disciplines.
Refers to the field and 
conceptual skills that are 
not directly included in 
the learning outcomes 
but are included in 
the learning-teaching 
experiences by being 
associated with the skills 
included in the learning 
outcomes.

===== PDF_PAGE_39 =====
39
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.2.1.L1.  Pupils can 
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the 
current theme and content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their 
minds.
CONTENT FRAME
SCHOOL LIFE:
Sub-themes: Greetings and introductions at school; places, and people at 
school; days of the week; national and religious days and celebrations.
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of the school, its parts, places, and 
people, and how to introduce and greet people there in English. As Year 2 Primary 
school pupils, they can know what a school is, what its parts and places are, and 
what kind of people are in it, and how to introduce and greet people in it.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on pupils’ knowledge of “school life” with its components 
such as greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; days 
of the week; national days and celebrations in their own language.
Pre-Evaluation Process
It is expected that the physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are 
appropriate and suitable for pupils to learn about the concept of “school” and to 
gain the knowledge of “what a school is, what parts and places it can have, and 
what kind of people are in it” in English.
Establishing Links
Pupils recall the concepts and associations related to the topic/theme “school 
life” by using their pre-existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively 
through thinking) to make links with the present activities in the theme in English 
without translating anything and without speaking any Turkish.
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To practise the concept of “school” and develop reading skills by 
focusing on the target vocabulary
Activity 1: Limited Reading and Writing Practice
Pupils are given a worksheet with visuals related to the concept of “school”.
Supporting
Objective: To practise the concept of “school” and develop reading skills by 
focusing on the target vocabulary
Activity 1: Reading and Writing Practice
Pupils are given a worksheet containing visuals related to the concept of “school”, 
with each visual having the English equivalent of the word written in dots 
underneath.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE.
Refers to the knowledge, 
skills, and process 
components of skills 
that are intended to be 
acquired by the student 
at the end of learning-
teaching experiences.
Refers to the main 
generalisation, principles 
and key concepts of the 
discipline .
Refers to the evaluation 
of the prior knowledge 
and skills required to 
learn new information 
and skills and the 
determination of 
interests and needs in 
the learning process.
Refers to the 
implementation of 
learning-teaching 
experiences that are 
aligned with the targeted 
student profile and 
fundamental learning 
approaches.
Refers to the set of 
information covered  
in the learning process 
(boundaries of the 
section/topic 
/sub-theme).
Course Code
Year
Number of Theme
Field Skill
Number of Learning Outcome
Refers to the knowledge 
and skills that are 
assumed to be brought 
from previous learning-
teaching processes.
Refers to the evaluation 
of learning outcomes 
and appropriate 
measurement and 
evaluation tools.
Refers to establishing 
a relationship between 
existing knowledge and 
skills and newly acquired 
knowledge and skills, 
and thus establishing 
a connection between 
newly acquired 
knowledge and skills and 
daily life experiences.
Refers to learning-
teaching experiences 
adapted in terms of 
environment, content, 
process and product for 
students who need more 
time and repetition in the 
learning process.
Refers to the evaluation 
by teachers themselves 
of the strengths and 
improvement needs 
of the teacher and the 
curriculum.
Refers to learning-
teaching experiences 
that provide students 
who are more advanced 
than their peers with 
expanded and in-depth 
learning opportunities 
and develop their 
knowledge and skills.
Refers to learning-
teaching experiences 
related to various 
expansion and support for 
students with different 
learning profiles.

===== PDF_PAGE_40 =====
40
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
2. THE THEMES IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM 
PRIMARY-YEAR 2 
(LEVEL: A1.1)
THEME 1: SCHOOL LIFE
Sub-themes: Greetings and introductions at school; 
people and places at school; days of the week; national 
and religious days and celebrations
This theme is centred on the concept of “school life” and covers the sub-themes 
of “greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of 
the week; national days and celebrations”. These components (sub-themes) are 
integrated into the learning process through the contextualised use of target 
vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and social language 
expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, 
collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ 
developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this 
theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed 
to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school 
environment.
CLASS HOURS 11 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination,  
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V10. Modesty, V11. 
Independence, V12. Patience, V14. Respect, V15. Love and Affection, V18. 
Cleanliness, V19. Patriotism, V20. Benevolence

===== PDF_PAGE_41 =====
41
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Life Study/ Science of Life, Visual Arts, Music, Physical Education 
and Games
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. 
Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, 
CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_42 =====
42
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 2 is structured based on holistic approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.2.1.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the 
week; national days and celebrations”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures, and context.
ENG.2.1.L2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “greetings and introductions 
at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national days and celebrations” 
together with key details and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.2.1.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “greetings and 
introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national days and 
celebrations” through details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age- and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school.
ENG.2.1.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “greetings 
and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national days and 
celebrations” in a very simple way.
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_43 =====
43
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.1.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national 
days and celebrations” accurately, authentically, and naturally through spontaneous selection 
and using it in an appropriate and effective way when communicating with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups, and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously, and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.2.1.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national 
days and celebrations”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences, and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.2.1.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “greetings and introductions at 
school; people and places at school; days of the week; national days and celebrations” through 
skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.2.1.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “greetings and 
introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national days and 
celebrations” by reading it carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it in 
a simple and meaningful way.
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_44 =====
44
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.1.R4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the reading-
comprehension process about the current content, “greetings and introductions at school; 
people and places at school; days of the week; national days and celebrations” for reflection 
in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.2.1.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “greetings and 
introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national days and 
celebrations” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately 
and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group, and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.2.1.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the current 
content about “greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the 
week; national days and celebrations” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally 
and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically 
and by pointing.

===== PDF_PAGE_45 =====
45
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.2.1.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “greetings 
and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national days and 
celebrations” in an age- and level-appropriate way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.2.1.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on “greetings 
and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national days and 
celebrations” based on the model/example provided to practise for further writing activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.2.1.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national 
days and celebrations” based on the model/example provided.
a) Pupils organise a very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.2.1.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the 
current content “greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of 
the week; national days and celebrations”.
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 
ENG.2.1.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks about 
the “greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; 
national days and celebrations” to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully, and individually reorganising it.
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_46 =====
46
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.1.W6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “greetings and introductions at school; people 
and places at school; days of the week; national days and celebrations” very simply for 
reflection in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.2.1.S1.  Pupils can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “greetings 
and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national days and 
celebrations” with the help of supplementary audio-visual materials.
a) Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and imitation after 
completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used during the 
initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current content.
ENG.2.1.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme 
on “greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; 
national days and celebrations”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.2.1.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “greetings and introductions at school; 
people and places at school; days of the week; national days and celebrations” by speaking 
accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.
ENG.2.1.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “greetings and introductions at school; people 
and places at school; days of the week; national days and celebrations” through reconstruction 
by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple, and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.
ENG.2.1.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “greetings and 
introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national days and 
celebrations” by reconstructing it to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.

===== PDF_PAGE_47 =====
47
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Pupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.
ENG.2.1.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “greetings and introductions at school; people 
and places at school; days of the week; national days and celebrations” very simply for 
reflection in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_48 =====
48
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
SCHOOL LIFE:
Sub-themes: Greetings and introductions at school; places, and people at school; days of the week; national 
and religious days and celebrations.
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
People in the school: A teacher, a pupil (pupil), a headmaster/headmistress (principal-AmE.), a friend, a boy, 
a girl, a kid.
Places in the school: A classroom, a lunch hall (lunchroom), a canteen, a library, a sports hall, a garden, a 
playground, a teacher’s room.
*National and religious days, festivals, and celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Language Chunks in Use: 
Language Chunks (“To be-present”): What’s/is it/this? It’s/is a/an…
Function: Asking what things and places are.
Language Chunks (“To be-present”): Who’s she/he? She’s Mr Aras. He’s my English teacher. This is Mr/Mrs/ 
Miss Hopkins. She/He is a teacher/headmaster., etc.
Where is she? She is in the garden.
Function: Introductions and telling names.
Preposition: in.
Language Chunks (“To be-present”): What’s your name? I’m/ am… / My name is…
Function: Introductions, asking and telling names.
Language Chunks (Imperatives): Come here, please.
Function: Giving commands, making requests (polite or firm) and giving instructions or directions.  
Language Chunks (“To be-present”): What day of the week is it? What day is it today? It’s/is Monday today.
Function: Asking and answering days of the week.
Personal Pronouns: I, he, she, it, we, you, they.
Function: Referring to the speaker as the subject.
Demonstrative pronoun: This. 
Function: Referring to something specific that is close to the speaker in space, time, or context.
WH-question words: What, who, where.
Function: Asking what a thing is, who a person is.
Greetings: 
Good morning! Hello!, Hi!..
How are you? I’m fine, thanks! And you?
Target Social Language in Use:
Excuse me!,  Sorry!,  That’s OK!,  Sure! Goodbye!, Bye!, See you tomorrow!, Hurray!, Welcome!, Well done!, 

===== PDF_PAGE_49 =====
49
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Thank you!, Nice!, Really!, That’s great!, Let’s start!, Look!, Good morning everybody!, Can I sit here?, Nice 
to meet you!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use: 
a, b
Vowel a:
a: (/ae/, /aeı/, /ə/, /a:/, /eɪ/, /a:/, /a/, /ɔː/, /eə/)
Consonant: b 
b: (/b/)
*No pronunciation symbols will be provided in any material written for the pupils, only the sounds in the 
words including them will be practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of the school, its parts, places, and people, and how to 
introduce and greet people there in English. As Year 2 Primary school pupils, they can know what a school 
is, what its parts and places are, and what kind of people are in it, and how to introduce and greet people in 
it. Pupils will know these and be able to express such situations in their own language but will not know how 
to say these things in another language if this has not yet been covered in the curriculum. The knowledge 
about the concept of “school” that they have in their own language would prepare them to identify the same 
concepts later in their foreign language, English in which they are assumed to be zero beginners. 
Principles
School is presented as a place where certain parts, places, and people in it function as important components.
School is an important context where initial social interactions of social communication such as greetings, 
salutations, and introductions are practised naturally and authentically in EFL.
Key Concepts
Greetings, introductions, people, places, greetings at school, introductions at school, people at school, 
places at school, days of the week, national days, celebrations and religious days.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT:  Pupils draw a school picture or make a cardboard model and stick the 
pictures of models of some places and people in it. They copy the words that go with the pictures and do a 
show-and-tell to introduce them to the class. This performance will be evaluated using rubrics.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on pupils’ knowledge of “school life” with its components such as “greetings and 
introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national days and celebrations” in 
their own language. Pupils’ experience as being a pupil in a primary school is accepted as a basis for this 
theme. As the pupils are seven-year-old children, they can know greetings and introductions at school; 
people and places at school; days of the week; national days and celebrations are in their own language, 
Turkish.
In the classroom, a fun warm-up activity which is not related to the theme “school” can be conducted as 
an ice-breaking session to help learners be ready for the whole learning process in the class with positive 
feelings for their well-being. This can be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to a 
song/chant/rhyme and so on which will not require any English knowledge and also there will not be a need 
to speak Turkish. 

===== PDF_PAGE_50 =====
50
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Pre-Evaluation Process
It is expected that the physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for pupils 
to learn about the concept of “school” and to gain the knowledge of “what a school is, what parts and places 
it can have, and what kind of people are in it” in English. As they are accepted as zero-beginners, there is 
nothing to remind them of English, but they can be supported to have a link for this concept in their own 
language, Turkish, without speaking it but thinking and imagining through it yet.  
Before classroom activities, a tour of the school could be carried out with the pupils to help them recall their 
background knowledge about the concept of “school” in their own language, Turkish in relation to school, 
that is, places, people, and parts of the school without mentioning any English words just to remember what 
a school is and what the parts/places/people of it are.  They can draw pictures of what they have seen during 
the tour when they go back to their classrooms. The activity can be evaluated with verbal praise.
Establishing Links
Pupils recall the concepts and associations related to the current topic/theme (concept)  “school life” by using 
their pre-existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) to make links with the 
present activities in the theme in English without translating anything and without speaking any Turkish. It is 
only thinking about the presented visuals in their own language about the current concept. It is assumed that 
pupils are suitable for learning about it in English, taking into account their age, level of interest, aptitude for 
foreign language acquisition and learning, attitudes towards foreign language learning, and learning styles. 
It is expected that pupils’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about the current concept and related words and language chunks in English as a foreign language. 
Many activities may apply to calling the background knowledge of pupils. For example, they can point correctly 
to a visual such as a picture, poster, cartoon etc. of the current concepts in the theme in it correctly when 
they are given instructions by the teacher with English, Turkish and/or with mimics and gestures. Pupils give 
responses by pointing out relevant so-called pictures without speaking any English and/or Turkish. Any other 
similar activities could be used to activate students’ background knowledge and to establish links.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about the current content (in their 
minds) in their own language and the present information about the current content through meaningful 
contextualised activities with visuals within the theme.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive and 
ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as playing a 
short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, saying a tongue 
twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of 
English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_51 =====
51
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.1.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current 
theme during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “school life” in their minds, so a 
further concept check would help them prepare for the current theme (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, V14.3, V18.2, 
LS1, CS2.11, CS2.16.2) . For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and show a card model of 
a school and sets of pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the pupils to point to the 
pictures in or on the model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context of the theme, the 
introductory digital story, that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.8) . For each 
theme, a digitally constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several 
times while going through the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language 
expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main context to 
the whole theme at the same time. (A 3-D model of a school can also be created using Web 2.0 programmes.) 
They can guess the sub-concepts of school life, so they can easily understand that the current theme will be 
“school life” (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.4, V14.3, V18.2, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.10, CS2.17).
ENG.2.1.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “school life with 
greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national and religious 
days and celebrations” as a whole, without stopping the video at any point, so that the pupils can understand 
the theme/topic holistically (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.3, V14.3, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.14, CS2.16.2).
ENG.2.1.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to 
the content about school life and its relevant components, some pictures are brought into the classroom 
by the teacher. The teacher brings a necessary number of large boxes for the pictures (some symbols are 
stuck on the boxes for school life with greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; 
days of the week; national and religious days and celebrations and puts the boxes on the table. She/He puts 
the corresponding picture into the related box when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
introductory digital story without stopping the video while the pupils watch the story (V3.3, V14.3, V18.2, 
V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS5). When they have watched the whole story, the teacher shows the items in the boxes 
on the table and asks some simple display questions about it. In this way, the teacher could carry out a 
monologue and also engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the theme 
as a whole through its components, which can be used to check their learning as described in item (8) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, V6.1, 
LS2, LS4, CS2.8). After watching the introductory digital story, the teacher takes all the pictures out of the 
boxes and puts them back on the table again and says the word “school life” several times aloud, and the 
pupils repeat after her/him. In this way, the main vocabulary of the theme “school life” is introduced to the 
pupils in English. To remember the sequence of the scenes with the parts, places, and people in the “school 
life” in the introductory digital story, the teacher shows the mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the 
Smart Board and asks the pupils to look at the images/ pictures of these scenes for a while (CS2.3). She/He 
then asks them to order the scenes in pairs with the mixed paper pictures she has already given to the pupils 
(SELS2.2, V3.4, V14.3, V4.2, V18.2, LS1, LS2, LS5) . When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for 
scenes of the story, the teacher asks the pupils to take turns or volunteer to order the scenes on the screen 
of the Smart Board (or the pictures on the blackboard (SELS1.2, V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10). This 
will help the teacher organise the story as a whole so that the pupils can identify the main theme and the 
components of the theme through their memories (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, CS2.12).

===== PDF_PAGE_52 =====
52
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.1.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3).
ENG.2.1.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “greetings and introductions at school; 
people and places at school; days of the week; national and religious days and celebrations”, the teacher 
puts on the table the pictures and boxes that she/he has previously used. She/He holds up each picture and 
asks the pupils to repeat each word aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to the recordings she/
he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes. She/He puts the picture in the correct box 
about the group corresponding to the word while repeating the words with the whole class (V3.4, V14.3, 
V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.16.3) . The teacher could offer variations with some techniques, 
such as showing the picture of the target words about school to the pupils to say the word or pointing to 
the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the recording, and then both. To help the pupils 
pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as 
a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then again as 
volunteers, using the shadow technique, in which pupils immediately repeat whatever the teacher is saying 
or the story, without pausing (D1.3, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V3.4, V7.1, LS2 CS2.14).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended with 
different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for the school and its components, 
the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts them out, the pupils repeat after her/him 
(SELS2.1, CS2.6). Then the teacher and the pupils say the target words and act them out together at the 
same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts them out (V3.4, V4.2, V15.1, LS4).  These 
“school life”-related actions can be done through the actions which can be done in the school, but they are 
only used for acting without teaching them as verbs in English. For instance, they can pretend to do things 
according to the topic. As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, sadly, angrily 
etc. using different tones of voice through TPR techniques (SELS2.3, V11.1, V12.2, V14.3, LS5, CS2.9). Then 
some groups of pupils say the words, some groups of pupils act them out. While doing the repetitions, they 
point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom. Some action 
sequences are also created through which the pupils can practise the social language expressions of the 
theme in a fun way by repeating, pointing, and miming in several games. Several fun pronunciation games 
could be played where pupils whisper a target word into the ears of their peers forming a chain and the 
last person says it aloud and the class checks if the word is pronounced correctly or not (D2.5, SELS2.1, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, V6.2, LS6, CS2.12).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.1.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS : The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract 
from the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading 
sections of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are 

===== PDF_PAGE_53 =====
53
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
limited reading texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and 
speed reading are used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading 
for detail are used in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases are used 
in a simplified and age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend and 
help talk/write about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language and 
communicative competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3). For the initial stage of 
reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, 
scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory 
story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the 
conceptual meanings they already have about the theme on “greetings and introductions at school; people 
and places at school; days of the week; national and religious days and celebrations” (V3.3, V14.3, V18.2, 
V19.1, V19.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.8).  At this stage, the teacher could ask the pupils to read the title/heading 
of the content and ask the pupils which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with 
the title by showing them a list of words and corresponding pictures to choose the ones they know (SELS1.1, 
V3.4, LS1, CS2.16.2). She/He reminds them not to ask for the meanings of new words or the words they do 
not know. She/He reminds them that this is only a recalling activity to check the words they know and that 
there will be time to work on the new words of the new theme later (D3.2, D3.6, V12.1, CS2.10, CS2.12).
ENG.2.1.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 3-D 
house model of “school life” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each item, the written form of the word is 
provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words first silently. The teacher then points 
to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole class. Then she/he invites volunteers 
to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of the class read them aloud as a chorus 
(D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V14.3, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.12).
ENG.2.1.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version 
of the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/Smart Board. She/ He 
asks the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14). From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used to 
understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “greetings and introductions at school; people 
and places at school; days of the week; national and religious days and celebrations ” (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, 
V14.3, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS5).  During this process pupils work collaboratively to exchange information, 
thoughts, and feelings (SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.6). This is evaluated as described in items (6), (7), (8), and (9) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.1.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: 
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 

===== PDF_PAGE_54 =====
54
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1). The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3).
ENG.2.1.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.
ENG.2.1.V2.
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to the 
theme “greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national and 
religious days and celebrations ”, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story again. 
A scanning activity to find out the main details of the introductory digital story (and/or a new text in the 
reading section) is organised to help pupils to know more about the content. This could help them identify 
what the target words in the text could be about. The activity could be designed by listing some pictures for 
the vocabulary about the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text (V3.3, V3.4, V14.3, 
V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS5). Pupils circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen, and scanned (quickly 
read) in the story/text. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general by using the main 
elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then, 
from the beginning, whenever an item related to “school life” is mentioned, the teacher stops the video and 
asks a question in the form of two options by showing their pictures (CS2.6). By guessing what they are 
based on the pictures, the scene, and the sound, pupils hear the English equivalents of the words for the 
greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national and religious 
days and celebrations, and they answer as a whole class. In this way, they are introduced to the meaning of 
the target words (D1.1, V19.1, V19.2, CS2.10). This is done in the form of a dialogue where their learning can 
be checked as described in items (SELS2.1) (3) and (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of 
the English Curriculum (V4.2, V14.1, V14.3, V18.2, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.1.V3.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “school”, the teacher prepares an activity using the Web 2.0 program with images/pictures 
of components of “school life”. She/He prepares three boxes on one side of the screen and mixed images/ 
pictures for target vocabulary related to the “school life” on the other side. She/He asks the pupils to look at 
the mixed pile of images/pictures on the Smart Board screen and scan them for a while to remember them 
(CS2.4). She/He asks the pupils to drag the objects about the components of the theme into the correct box 
on the screen. The boxes have the words for each component represented on them with symbolic pictures. 
The pupils are given the cut-out pictures and a large sheet of paper with the pictures of empty boxes. The 
teacher asks them to work in pairs and put the cut-out pictures in the right box and ask each other several 
display questions (CS2.5). When the pupils have finished working with the cut-outs and asking and answering 
questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart Board and drag 
the corresponding images/pictures as the components of the theme “school” to the correct empty boxes 
on the screen (SELS1.2, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the concept of the theme 
“school life” are consolidated through categorisation. The same activity can be done with real pictures on 
the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. To practise the meanings of the target words 
about the school, the teacher places several pictures for them in the different parts of the classroom. She/
He then puts some flashcards with the target vocabulary for “school life” on the blackboard/whiteboard. 
She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows it to the pupils. Pupils, working in pairs, look at the flashcard, 

===== PDF_PAGE_55 =====
55
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
decide which picture on the classroom walls is relevant, they go to the picture together, pin the flashcard to 
the noticeboard and say the word together first in pairs, and then as a whole class (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, 
V7.1, V14.3, V18.2, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.5). To consolidate the meanings of the new vocabulary items for 
the concept of “school life”, the teacher could organise several activities in pairs and groups with pictures 
and flashcards such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, etc. (SELS2.2). These activities are 
closed and controlled so that pupils can practise the current (new) vocabulary about the current context 
in the beginning but later they work with simple and easy open-ended and communicative activities (D2.5, 
SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5). This is evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The teacher asks the pupils to copy the words 
in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with their peers and 
check each other’s spelling using the words written on the model school on the blackboard/Smart Board 
(SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4).  This is evaluated as described in items (3) and (4) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.1.G1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS:  To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target language 
chunks about the theme “greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the 
week; national and religious days and celebrations” (D3.2, V14.3, V18.2, LS5, CS2.2). While the pupils watch 
the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. 
She/He imitates the action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the pupils to do the same 
(CS2.14). She/He could hold up large pictures and ask the pupils questions about the pictures with the target 
chunks expecting the pupils to ask and answer by using the target chunks. To check the pupils’ identification 
of the target language chunks, the teacher shows some picture strips that she/he has prepared for this 
activity, using some Web 2.0 programmes, after the pupils have watched the introductory digital story and 
imitated the actions and said the target language chunks. She/He asks the pupils to listen to her/him saying 
a target language chunk and then to look at the screen and say “Stop!” when they see a scene in the picture 
strips with the target chunk that the teacher has just said (SELS3.1, CS2.7). The teacher stops if the pupils 
are correct, but not if they are not (V3.3, V4.1, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.2.1.G2.
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme “greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national 
and religious days and celebrations”, and writes the appropriate language chunks to be used with each of 
the groups. She/He also provides the vocabulary items on the Smart Board screen. The teacher wants the 
pupils to think for a while and talk with their peers about which target words can be used in which language 
chunk group (SELS2.2, V3.1, V10.3, V14.3, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.4).  Then the pupils go to 
the board and move the words under the correct heading and say the complete sentence with the target 
words and the chunks. They are then asked to say a sentence with the target chunk aloud as a class. Each 
sentence is repeated after each pair. Their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), and (9) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The same game can be played 
with pictures on the blackboard if there are technological/technical problems (D2.5). To organise the pupils’ 
further practice to consolidate the target language chunks, the teacher could create some action sequences 
in context by repeating, saying, and acting out with different activity bundles where their learning can be 
checked as described in items (5), (8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of 
the English Curriculum (CS2.13). There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. 
Pupils can automatically, spontaneously, and naturally select and use the target language chunks in the 
current context (SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, LS5, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  For consolidation of the target 
language chunks, the teacher can facilitate more fun activities and games so that the pupils can practise 
and consolidate them (V4.4, V7.2).

===== PDF_PAGE_56 =====
56
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.1.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by using 
language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme which 
is about “greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national and 
religious days and celebrations” as in other themes. Writing activities are arranged according to age and 
level so they are quite limited and are gradually expanded (V3.2, V3.4, V14.3, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS4, 
LS5).
ENG.2.1.W2.
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions with 
a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are asked 
to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they get used 
to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written language 
(D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). To further practise guided and copied writing, the teacher gives 
all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2) (of two, three, four etc.) 
and to write the names of the vocabulary items about “greetings and introductions at school; people and 
places at school; days of the week; national and religious days and celebrations” next to their drawings on 
the model related to school life. The teacher asks them to look at the Smart Board screen with the model 
related to school life that she/he has made earlier so that the pupils can easily copy the target words for the 
items as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum 
(V4.4, V7.3, V14.3, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.1.W3.
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form of a 
new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/writing 
(copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “school life” in fun, enjoyable, varied, 
and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, practical, and appropriate to the pupils’ age 
and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, V14.3, V18.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20).
ENG.2.1.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.2.1.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme “greetings and introductions at school; people 
and places at school; days of the week; national and religious days and celebrations” from simple to more 
expanded versions in their writing (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V4.2, V14.3, V15.1, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS4, 

===== PDF_PAGE_57 =====
57
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce simple digital materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of 
ways (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20). These activities can be evaluated as described 
in items (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.1.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15). Pupils express what they think and feel about them. 
Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs  (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, SELS2.2). 
The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.2.1.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language 
including the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme about 
“greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; days of the week; national and religious 
days and celebrations” (V3.2, V4.2, V14.3, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.1.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6). They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.
ENG.2.1.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo/picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).
ENG.2.1.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. To interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “greetings and introductions at school; people and 
places at school; days of the week; national and religious days and celebrations” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, 
V11.1, V14.3, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20).  AI-based technologies can be used for various 
activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects 
at school and at home through recordings for developing their oral skills (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, 
V3.4, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).

===== PDF_PAGE_58 =====
58
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.1.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Pupils communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related 
to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can 
be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision. These new contents created 
are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level. 
Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used together with other 
further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, LS1). Pupils are encouraged to produce several 
spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, show and tell activities, acting out 
activities to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using 
the language including the target words, language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme 
“school life” and its components such as “greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; 
days of the week; national and religious days and celebrations” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V7.2, V14.3, V18.2, 
LS4, LS5, CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to 
authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items 
(7), (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
Then they can expand their language use and practise by communicating with others.
ENG.2.1.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.15).  The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To practise the concept of “school” and develop reading skills by focusing on the target vocabulary
Activity 1: Limited Reading and Writing Practice
Pupils are given a worksheet with visuals related to the concept of “school”. The teacher asks them to write 
the English equivalents of each visual underneath. The English words corresponding to the visuals are 
not provided; pupils are required to write them from memory. They say the words aloud as a whole class 
after finishing the writing session. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using 
emoticons. 
Activity 2: Interactive Vocabulary Games
The teacher prepares an anagram game related to the school theme using a Web2.0 tool. The letters of the 
English word corresponding to the visual are given in a scrambled form beneath the picture. Pupils are asked 
to arrange the letters correctly. They say the words after they finish unscrambling. Pupils reflect on their 
thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.

===== PDF_PAGE_59 =====
59
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Supporting
Objective: To practise the concept of “school” and develop reading skills by focusing on the target vocabulary
Activity 1: Reading and Writing Practice
Pupils are given a worksheet containing visuals related to the concept of “school”, with each visual having 
the English equivalent of the word written in dots underneath. Pupils connect the dots to form the word and 
grasp the complete word. They say the words aloud as a whole class after they finish the writing session. 
Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
Activity 2: Interactive Vocabulary Games
The teacher prepares a matching game with pictures and target words related to the concept of “school” 
using a Web2.0 tool. Pupils match the visuals with their English equivalents. They say the words aloud as 
the whole class after finishing the matching session. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the 
activity by using emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE.  

===== PDF_PAGE_60 =====
60
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 2: CLASSROOM LIFE
Sub-themes: Classroom instructions and language; 
classroom furniture, devices and objects; colours 
This theme is centred on the concept of “classroom life” and covers the sub-
themes of “classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices 
and objects; colours”. These components (sub-themes) are integrated into 
the learning process through the contextualised use of target vocabulary, 
grammatical structures, phonological features, and social language 
expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, 
collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ 
developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of 
this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences 
needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the 
school environment.
CLASS HOURS 11
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill 
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V10. Modesty, V11. 
Independence, V12. Patience, V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V15. Love and 
Affection, V18. Cleanliness, V20. Benevolence

===== PDF_PAGE_61 =====
61
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Life Study/ Science of Life, Visual Arts, Music, Physical 
Education and Games
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. 
Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, 
CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_62 =====
62
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 2 is structured based on holistic approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.2.2.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, 
devices and objects; colours”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures, and context.
ENG.2.2.L2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “classroom life with classroom 
instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; colours” together with 
key details and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.2.2.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “classroom life with 
classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; colours” 
through details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age- and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school. 
ENG.2.2.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “classroom 
life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; 
colours” in a very simple way.
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_63 =====
63
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.2.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and 
objects; colours” accurately, authentically, and naturally through spontaneous selection and 
using it in an appropriate and effective way when communicating with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups, and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously, and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.2.2.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and 
objects; colours”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.2.2.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “classroom life with classroom 
instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; colours” through 
skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.2.2.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “classroom life 
with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; colours” 
by reading it carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it in 
a simple and meaningful way.
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_64 =====
64
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.2.R4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “classroom life with classroom 
instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; colours” for reflection 
in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.2.2.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “classroom life 
with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; colours” 
accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively 
when communicating with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.2.2.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the current 
content about “classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, 
devices and objects; colours” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use 
it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically 
and by pointing.

===== PDF_PAGE_65 =====
65
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.2.2.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on 
“classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and 
objects; colours” in an age- and level-appropriate way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.2.2.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on 
“classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices 
and objects; colours” based on the model/example provided to practise for further writing 
activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.2.2.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and 
objects; colours” based on the model/example provided.
a) Pupils organise a very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.2.2.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the 
current content “classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom 
furniture, devices and objects; colours”.
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 
ENG.2.2.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks about 
the “classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices 
and objects; colours” to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully, and individually reorganising it.
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_66 =====
66
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.2.W6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “classroom life with classroom instructions 
and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; colours” very simply for reflection in 
relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.2.2.S1.  Pupils can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “classroom 
life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; 
colours” with the help of supplementary audio-visual materials.
a) Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and imitation after 
completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used during the 
initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current content.
ENG.2.2.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme 
on “classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices 
and objects; colours”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.2.2.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “classroom life with classroom instructions 
and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; colours” by speaking accurately, 
efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.
ENG.2.2.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “classroom life with classroom instructions 
and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; colours” through reconstruction by 
speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple, and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.
ENG.2.2.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “classroom life with 
classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; colours” by 
reconstructing it to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.

===== PDF_PAGE_67 =====
67
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Pupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.
ENG.2.2.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “classroom life with classroom instructions 
and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; colours” very simply for reflection in 
relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_68 =====
68
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
CLASSROOM LIFE:
Sub-themes: Classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; colours. 
Basic Classroom Instructions and classroom language (Not to teach as target language chunks with 
structural rules but to be used constantly by the teacher as meta-language):
Come here, please!
Look at me! Look here!
Open/Close your book!
Open the door, please! Close the door, please!
Stand up, please! Sit down, please!
Listen! Be quiet, please!
Repeat, please!
Point to…, please!
Pass the pencil/rubber etc. please!
Put your pencils/rubbers etc. in the box/bag, please!
Colour it, please!
Draw it, please!
Say… please!
Look at the board, please!
Raise your hand, please!
Come to the board, please!
Show your picture, please!
Good job!
Are you ready?
Classroom language:
Good!
Well done!
(Can I go to the bathroom/toilet?) Yes, you can!
Here you are!
Thanks!
Hurry up!
It’s break time now!
Time’s up! 
Do you need help?
Not yet!
Can I come in?
Can you pass the blue crayon, please?
I’m sorry, I’m late.
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Classroom furniture: A desk, a table, a Smart Board, a blackboard/whiteboard, a chair, a bookcase, a clock 
(classroom features: a door, a window, a wall).
Classroom objects: A pencil, a coloured pencil, a rubber (an eraser-AmE.), a notebook, a book, a crayon, a 
pencil case, a sharpener, a (piece of) chalk, a glue, scissors.
Classroom devices: A computer, a tablet, Smart Board.
Basic colours: Red, white, black, pink, blue, purple, yellow, brown, green, orange.
Numbers: 1-20
The alphabet (song):
*National and religious days, festivals, and celeberations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.

===== PDF_PAGE_69 =====
69
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Language Chunks in Use:
“To be-present”: (What’s/is it?  It’s/is a chair).
Function: Telling names, what things are, what colour things are.
“To be-present”: (What colour is it? It’s/is blue. What colour is the chair? The chair is blue. It’s blue).
Function: Telling the colours of things and objects.
“To be-present”: (How many chairs? Five chairs).
Function: Asking the number of things, objects, and people very simply.
Possessive adjectives: My, his, her, its, our, your, their.
Function: Modifying a noun to show ownership and describing the object.
Can for permission: (Can I go outside? Can I go to the bathroom, please? Yes, you can).
Function: Asking for and giving permission.
Target Social Language in Use:
What’s next?
Good luck!
Of course! 
You’re right!
It’s her/my/his turn!
I see!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Consonants: c, d 
c: (/si/, /k/); d: (/d/)
*No pronunciation symbols will be provided in any material written for the pupils, only the sounds in the 
words including them will be practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of the classroom, the furniture and objects in it and colours 
of objects. Primary school pupils in Year 2 can know what a classroom is, what furniture and objects are in 
it and what are colours in Turkish. Pupils will know these and be able to express such situations in their own 
language but will not know how to say these things in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered 
in their curriculum. The knowledge of the concept of “classroom” that they have in their own language 
would prepare them to identify the same concepts later in their foreign language, English, in which they are 
assumed to be zero beginners. 
Principles 
A classroom is introduced as a place where there are certain furniture and objects that function as 
important components of it. A classroom is an important context where initial social interactions of social 
communication such as classroom instructions, are practised naturally and authentically in EFL.

===== PDF_PAGE_70 =====
70
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Key Concepts:
Instructions, language, classroom, classroom instructions, classroom language, objects, devices, furniture, 
classroom objects, classroom devices, classroom furniture, conditions, colours.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Pupils draw a classroom picture or make a cardboard model or a 3D digital 
model and stick pictures of models of some furniture and objects in it. They copy the words that go with the 
pictures and do a show-and-tell to introduce them to the class. This performance will be evaluated using 
rubrics.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on pupils’ knowledge of “classroom life” with its components such as “classroom 
instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; colours” in their own language. As the 
pupils are seven-year-old children, they can know what classroom instructions and language; classroom 
furniture, devices and objects; colours are in their own language, Turkish. Pupils’ experiences as being a 
pupil and a part of people in a classroom (so far) is taken as a basis for this theme/topic. Pupils, they can 
know what a classroom is, what a classroom context is like, what the components of a classroom are, how 
the teachers lead and facilitate them with classroom instructions, how they understand him/her, and follow 
and carry out the instructions (which they already know as concepts in Turkish)  and also there will not be a 
need to speak Turkish.  
In the classroom, a fun warm-up activity which is not related to the theme “classroom” can be conducted as 
an ice-breaking session to help learners be ready for the whole learning process in the class with positive 
feelings for their well-being. This can be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to a 
song/chant/rhyme and so on which will not require any English knowledge and also there will not be a need 
to speak Turkish.
Pre-Evaluation Process
It is expected that the physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for the 
pupils to learn about the concept of “classroom life” and to gain knowledge of “what a classroom is, what 
furniture and objects are in it and what and colours are in English. As they are accepted as zero-beginners, 
there is nothing to remind them of English, but they can be supported to have an imaginary association for 
this concept in their own language, Turkish, without speaking it in class. 
Before the main activities, the teacher could show them a classroom picture and ask them to say “yes” or 
“no” in English if they know what it is in Turkish. She/He could ask them to draw the picture of the place 
(classroom) they are in Turkish and ask them to keep the pictures for later. The activity can be evaluated 
with verbal praise.
Establishing Links
Pupils recall the concepts and associations related to the topic/theme “classroom life” by calling their pre-
existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) to make links with the current 
activities in the theme in English without translating anything and without speaking any Turkish until they 
start learning the target words in the current (new) concept, “classroom life”. 
It is only thinking about the presented visuals in their own language and, if necessary, and when asked 
using any words about the concept of “classroom” that they have already learnt/known in English at the very 
beginning of the process of learning about the current (new) theme/topic “classroom life”. The vocabulary 
about the concept of “school” and the language chunks “What’s/is it/this? It’s/is /This is….” in English from the 
previous theme could help them understand the present theme more easily.
Connections between pre-existing knowledge regarding school (in their minds/heads) and the present 
information about the concept of “classroom” are made through meaningful and contextualised activities 

===== PDF_PAGE_71 =====
71
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
with visuals.  The teacher could ask them to look around and think where they are and what kind of a place it 
is in Turkish to recall their background knowledge (in Turkish) about a classroom and what they can have in 
it without mentioning any English words. They do not talk or translate anything from Turkish into English as 
this is just a thinking exercise.
An example practice could be done to point correctly to a picture of classroom and pictures of classroom 
furniture, devices and objects in it and also “colours” correctly when they are given instructions by the 
teacher in English and/or with mimics and gestures. Pupils give responses by pointing out relevant so-called 
pictures without speaking any English and/or Turkish.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about school (in their minds) in their 
own language and the present information about the concept of “classroom life” through meaningful 
contextualised activities with visuals within the theme.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME FOR WELL-BEING
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive and 
ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as playing a 
short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, saying a tongue 
twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of 
English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG.2.2.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current 
theme during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “classroom life” in their minds, so 
a further concept check would help them prepare for the current theme (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, V14.3, V18.2, 
LS1, CS2.11, CS2.16.2) . For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and show a card model of 
a school and sets of pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the pupils to point to the 
pictures in or on the model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context of the theme, the 
introductory digital story, that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.8) . For each 
theme, a digitally constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several 
times while going through the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language 
expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main context to 
the whole theme at the same time. (A 3-D model of a school can also be created using Web 2.0 programmes.) 
They can guess the sub-concepts of school life, so they can easily understand that the current theme will 
be “classroom life” (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.4, V13.4, V14.1, V18.2, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17).

===== PDF_PAGE_72 =====
72
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.2.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “classroom life 
with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; weather conditions; 
colours” as a whole, without stopping the video at any point, so that the pupils can understand the theme/
topic holistically (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.3, V13.4, V14.1, V18.2, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.14, CS2.16.2).
ENG.2.2.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to the 
content about classroom life and its relevant components, some pictures are brought into the classroom by 
the teacher. The teacher brings a necessary number of large boxes for the pictures (some symbols are stuck 
on the boxes for classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices 
and objects; weather conditions; colours) and puts the boxes on the table. She/He puts the corresponding 
picture into the related box when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the introductory digital 
story without stopping the video while the pupils watch the story (V3.3, V13.4, V14.1, V18.2, LS1) . When 
they have watched the whole story, the teacher shows the items in the boxes on the table and asks some 
simple display questions about it. In this way, the teacher could carry out a monologue and also engage 
in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the theme as a whole through its 
components, which can be used to check their learning as described in item (8) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, V6.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8).  After 
watching the introductory digital story, the teacher takes all the pictures out of the boxes and puts them 
back on the table again and says the word “classroom life” several times aloud, and the pupils repeat after 
her/him. In this way, the main vocabulary of the theme “classroom life” is introduced to the pupils in English. 
To remember the sequence of the scenes with the parts, places, and people in the “classroom life” in the 
introductory digital story, the teacher shows the mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board 
and asks the pupils to look at the images/ pictures of these scenes for a while (CS2.3). She/He then asks 
them to order the scenes in pairs with the mixed paper pictures she has already given to the pupils (SELS2.2, 
V3.4, V4.2, V13.4, V14.1, V18.2, LS1, LS2). When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for scenes of the 
story, the teacher asks the pupils to take turns or volunteer to order the scenes on the screen of the Smart 
Board (or the pictures on the blackboard (SELS1.2, V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10). This will help the 
teacher organise the story as a whole so that the pupils can identify the main theme and the components of 
the theme through their memories (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, CS2.12).
ENG.2.2.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3).
ENG.2.2.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “classroom life with classroom 
instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; weather conditions; colours”, the 
teacher puts on the table the pictures and boxes that she/he has previously used. She/He holds up each 

===== PDF_PAGE_73 =====
73
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
picture and asks the pupils to repeat each word aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to the 
recordings she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes. She/He puts the picture in 
the correct box about the group corresponding to the word while repeating the words with the whole class 
(V3.4, V13.4, V14.1, V18.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.16.3).  The teacher could offer variations with some techniques, 
such as showing the picture of the target words about school to the pupils to say the word or pointing to 
the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the recording, and then both. To help the pupils 
pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as 
a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then again as 
volunteers, using the shadow technique, in which pupils immediately repeat whatever the teacher is saying 
or the story, without pausing (D1.3, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V3.4, V7.1, LS2 CS2.14).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended 
with different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for the classroom and 
its components, the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts them out, the pupils 
repeat after her/him (SELS2.1, CS2.6). Then the teacher and the pupils say the target words and act them 
out together at the same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts them out (V3.4, V4.2, 
V15.1, LS4). These “classroom life”-related actions can be done through the actions which can be done in 
the school, but they are only used for acting without teaching them as verbs in English. For instance, they 
can pretend to do things according to the topic. As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the 
teacher happily, sadly, angrily etc. using different tones of voice through TPR techniques (SELS2.3, V11.1, 
V12.2, V14.3, LS5, CS2.9).  Then some groups of pupils say the words, some groups of pupils act them out. 
While doing the repetitions, they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different places 
in the classroom. Some action sequences are also created through which the pupils can practise the social 
language expressions of the theme in a fun way by repeating, pointing, and miming in several games. Several 
fun pronunciation games could be played where pupils whisper a target word into the ears of their peers 
forming a chain and the last person says it aloud and the class checks if the word is pronounced correctly 
or not (D2.5, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, V6.2, LS6, CS2.12).  Their learning is evaluated as described in 
items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.2.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS : The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract 
from the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading 
sections of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are 
limited reading texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and 
speed reading are used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading 
for detail are used in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases are used 
in a simplified and age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend and 
help talk/write about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language and 
communicative competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3). For the initial stage of 
reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, 
scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory 
story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the 
conceptual meanings they already have about the theme on “classroom life with classroom instructions and 
language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; weather conditions; colours” (V3.3, V13.4, V14.1, V18.2, 
LS2, LS4, CS2.8). At this stage, the teacher could ask the pupils to read the title/heading of the content 
and ask the pupils which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title by 
showing them a list of words and corresponding pictures to choose the ones they know (SELS1.1, V3.4, LS1, 

===== PDF_PAGE_74 =====
74
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CS2.16.2). She/He reminds them not to ask for the meanings of new words or the words they do not know. 
She/He reminds them that this is only a recalling activity to check the words they know and that there will be 
time to work on the new words of the new theme later (D3.2, D3.6, V12.1, CS2.10, CS2.12).
ENG.2.2.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 3-D 
house model of “classroom life” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each item, the written form of the word 
is provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words first silently. The teacher then points 
to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole class. Then she/he invites volunteers 
to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of the class read them aloud as a chorus 
(D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG.2.2.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version 
of the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/Smart Board. She/ He 
asks the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14) . From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used 
to understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “classroom life with classroom instructions 
and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; weather conditions; colours” (SELS3.1, SELS3.2). 
During this process pupils work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings (SELS2.2, 
V4.2, V13.4, V14.1, V18.2, CS2.6). This is evaluated as described in items (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.2.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: 
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1). The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3).
ENG.2.2.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.
ENG.2.2.V2.
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to the 
theme “classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; 

===== PDF_PAGE_75 =====
75
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
weather conditions; colours”, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story again. A 
scanning activity to find out the main details of the introductory digital story (and/or a new text in the reading 
section) is organised to help pupils to know more about the content. This could help them identify what 
the target words in the text could be about. The activity could be designed by listing some pictures for the 
vocabulary about the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text (V3.3, V3.4, V13.4, 
V14.1, V18.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). Pupils circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen, and scanned (quickly 
read) in the story/text. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general by using the main 
elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then, 
from the beginning, whenever an item related to “classroom life” is mentioned, the teacher stops the video 
and asks a question in the form of two options by showing their pictures (CS2.6). By guessing what they 
are based on the pictures, the scene, and the sound, pupils hear the English equivalents of the words for 
classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; weather 
conditions; colours, and they answer as a whole class. In this way, they are introduced to the meaning of the 
target words (D1.1, CS2.10, V13.4, V14.1). This is done in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be 
checked as described in items (SELS2.1) (3) and (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of 
the English Curriculum (V4.2, V14.1, V18.2, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.2.2.V3.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “school”, the teacher prepares an activity using the Web 2.0 program with images/
pictures of components of “classroom life”. She/He prepares three boxes on one side of the screen and 
mixed images/ pictures for target vocabulary related to the “classroom life” on the other side. She/He asks 
the pupils to look at the mixed pile of images/pictures on the Smart Board screen and scan them for a while 
to remember them (CS2.4). She/He asks the pupils to drag the objects about the components of the theme 
into the correct box on the screen. The boxes have the words for each component represented on them with 
symbolic pictures. The pupils are given the cut-out pictures and a large sheet of paper with the pictures 
of empty boxes. The teacher asks them to work in pairs and put the cut-out pictures in the right box and 
ask each other several display questions (CS2.5). When the pupils have finished working with the cut-outs 
and asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to 
the Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures as the components of the theme “school” to 
the correct empty boxes on the screen (SELS1.2, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to 
the concept of the theme “classroom life” are consolidated through categorisation. The same activity can 
be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. To practise the 
meanings of the target words about the school, the teacher places several pictures for them in the different 
parts of the classroom. She/He then puts some flashcards with the target vocabulary for “classroom life” on 
the blackboard/whiteboard. She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows it to the pupils. Pupils, working 
in pairs, look at the flashcard, decide which picture on the classroom walls is relevant, they go to the picture 
together, pin the flashcard to the noticeboard and say the word together first in pairs, and then as a whole 
class (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.5) . To consolidate the meanings of the new 
vocabulary items for the concept of “school”, the teacher could organise several activities in pairs and 
groups with pictures and flashcards such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, etc. (SELS2.2). 
These activities are closed and controlled so that pupils can practise the current (new) vocabulary about the 
current context in the beginning but later they work with simple and easy open-ended and communicative 
activities (D2.5, SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5). This is evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The teacher asks the pupils to 
copy the words in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling using the words written on the model school on the blackboard/
Smart Board (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). This is evaluated as described in items (3) and 
(4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.

===== PDF_PAGE_76 =====
76
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.2.G1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS:  To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target language 
chunks about the theme “classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, 
devices and objects; weather conditions; colours” (D3.2, V13.4, V14.1, V18.2, CS2.2). While the pupils watch 
the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. 
She/He imitates the action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the pupils to do the same 
(CS2.14). She/He could hold up large pictures and ask the pupils questions about the pictures with the target 
chunks expecting the pupils to ask and answer by using the target chunks. To check the pupils’ identification 
of the target language chunks, the teacher shows some picture strips that she/he has prepared for this 
activity, using some Web 2.0 programmes, after the pupils have watched the introductory digital story and 
imitated the actions and said the target language chunks. She/He asks the pupils to listen to her/him saying 
a target language chunk and then to look at the screen and say “Stop!” when they see a scene in the picture 
strips with the target chunk that the teacher has just said (SELS3.1, CS2.7). The teacher stops if the pupils 
are correct, but not if they are not (V3.3, V4.1, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.2.2.G2.
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme “classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and 
objects; weather conditions; colours”, and writes the appropriate language chunks to be used with each of 
the groups. She/He also provides the vocabulary items on the Smart Board screen. The teacher wants the 
pupils to think for a while and talk with their peers about which target words can be used in which language 
chunk group (SELS2.2, V3.1, V10.3, V13.4, V14.1, V18.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.4).  Then the pupils go to the board 
and move the words under the correct heading and say the complete sentence with the target words and 
the chunks. They are then asked to say a sentence with the target chunk aloud as a class. Each sentence is 
repeated after each pair. Their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The same game can be played with pictures on 
the blackboard if there are technological/technical problems (D2.5). To organise the pupils’ further practice 
to consolidate the target language chunks, the teacher could create some action sequences in context by 
repeating, saying, and acting out with different activity bundles where their learning can be checked as 
described in items (5), (8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum (CS2.13). There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Pupils can 
automatically, spontaneously, and naturally select and use the target language chunks in the current context 
(SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, LS5, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  For consolidation of the target language chunks, 
the teacher can facilitate more fun activities and games so that the pupils can practise and consolidate 
them (V4.4, V7.2).
ENG.2.2.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by using 
language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme which 
is about “classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; 
weather conditions; colours” as in other themes. Writing activities are arranged according to age and level 
so they are quite limited and are gradually expanded (V3.2, V3.4, V13.4, V14, V14.1, V18.2, LS1, LS2, LS4).

===== PDF_PAGE_77 =====
77
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.2.W2.
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions with 
a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are asked 
to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they get used 
to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written language 
(D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). To further practise guided and copied writing, the teacher gives 
all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2)  (of two, three, four 
etc.) and to write the names of the vocabulary items about “classroom life with classroom instructions and 
language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; weather conditions; colours” next to their drawings on 
the model related to classroom life. The teacher asks them to look at the Smart Board screen with the model 
related to classroom life that she/he has made earlier so that the pupils can easily copy the target words 
for the items as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum (V4.4, V7.3, V13.4, V14.1 V18.2, LS2, LS4).
ENG.2.2.W3.
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form of a 
new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/writing 
(copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “classroom life” in fun, enjoyable, varied, 
and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, practical, and appropriate to the pupils’ age 
and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.20).
ENG.2.2.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.2.2.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme “classroom life with classroom instructions and 
language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; weather conditions; colours” from simple to more 
expanded versions in their writing (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V4.2, V13.4, V14.1, V15.1, V18.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). 
AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They 
can also produce simple digital materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways (D3.3, 
SELS3.2, SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20). These activities can be evaluated as described in items (8), 
(9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.2.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing expression process and asks them to express their  
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 

===== PDF_PAGE_78 =====
78
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15).  Pupils express what they think and feel about 
them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, 
SELS2.2). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and  
collaborative design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.2.2.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language 
including the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme 
about “classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; 
weather conditions; colours” (V3.2, V4.2, V13.4, V14.1, V18.2, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.2.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6). They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.
ENG.2.2.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo/picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).
ENG.2.2.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. To interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “classroom life with classroom instructions and 
language; classroom furniture, devices and objects; weather conditions; colours” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, 
V11.1, V13.4, V14.1, V18.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20).  AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, 
giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school 
and at home through recordings for developing their oral skills (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V3.4, 
V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).
ENG.2.2.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Pupils communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related 
to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can 
be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision. These new contents created 
are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level. 
Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used together with other 
further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, LS1). Pupils are encouraged to produce several 
spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, show and tell activities, acting out 
activities to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using 
the language including the target words, language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme 
“classroom life” and its components such as “classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, 

===== PDF_PAGE_79 =====
79
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
devices and objects; weather conditions; colours”  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V7.2, V13.4, V14.1, V18.2, 
LS4, LS5, CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to 
authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items 
(7), (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
Then they can expand their language use and practise by communicating with others.
ENG.2.2.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.15).  The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To practise and improve knowledge and skills for talking about classroom, classroom furniture, 
objects and instructions in English.
Activity 1: Interactive vocabulary game
One set of cards is made with pictures of objects in the classroom and another set with their names. Pupils 
work in pairs to match the pictures with the correct words. An interactive word wall is set up where pictures 
of basic classroom instructions can be drawn or target language chunks can be written under the picture 
using basic classroom instructions, such as “Come here!, Look at me!, Look here!, Open the door!, Close the 
door! etc…”. Then working in pairs, one pupil says the instruction correctly and the other pupil acts it out and 
repeats the chunk. Then they do the action and say the chunk together. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and 
feelings about the activity by using emoticons. 
Activity 2: Bingo
Bingo cards are made with pictures of classroom objects and furniture in different colours. Colours are 
called out, and pupils mark their cards that are only colours. After marking, they use the colour in a target 
language chunk and say it. The first pupil to complete a row shouts “Bingo!” and then they repeat as a whole 
class. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons. 
Activity 3: Hop and say
A number line is created on the floor with tape. A number is called out, and the pupils have to hop to that 
number. When they hop, they have to say the number correctly. To increase the level of difficulty, basic 
Maths problems are called out (e.g., “Hop to 5 + 3”). They repeat the numbers as a whole class. Pupils reflect 
on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons. 
Activity 4: Song 
A song consisting of the basic short classroom instructions (Stand up! /Sit down! /Listen! /Come here! / Be 
quiet! /Open the door! /Close the door!) can be used as a consolidation activity. The pupils can repeat the 
song after the tape to remember and revise the classroom instructions. Pupils choose a peer and sing a part 
of the song at random and have her/his peer act it out. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about 
the activity by using emoticons.

===== PDF_PAGE_80 =====
80
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Supporting
Objective: To practise and improve knowledge and skills for talking about classroom, classroom furniture, 
objects and instructions in English.
Activity 1: Interactive vocabulary game
One set of cards is made with pictures of objects in the classroom and another set with their names. Pupils 
work in pairs to match the pictures with the correct words. An interactive word wall is set up where pictures 
of basic classroom instructions can be drawn or target language chunks can be written under the picture 
using basic classroom instructions, such as “Come here!, Look at me!, Look here!, Open the door!, Close the 
door! etc…”. Then they repeat the words as a whole class. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about 
the activity by using emoticons. 
Activity 2: Bingo
Bingo cards are made with pictures of classroom objects and furniture in different colours. Colours are 
called out, and pupils mark their cards that are only colours. After marking, they say the colour word. The 
first pupil to complete a row shouts “Bingo!”. Then they repeat the words as a whole class. Pupils reflect on 
their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons. 
Activity 3: Hop and say
A number line is created on the floor with tape. A number is called out, and the pupils have to hop to that 
number. When they hop, they have to say the number correctly. Then they repeat the number as a whole 
class. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons. 
Activity 4: Song 
A song consisting of the basic short classroom instructions (Stand up! /Sit down! /Listen! /Come here! / Be 
quiet! /Open the door! /Close the door!) can be used as a consolidation activity. The pupils can repeat the 
song after the tape to remember and revise the classroom instructions. They repeat the song as a whole 
class. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE.     

===== PDF_PAGE_81 =====
81
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 3: PERSONAL LIFE
Sub-themes: Parts of the body and physical features; 
clothes; days of the week, ages and birthdays; 
weather conditions
This theme is centred on the concept of “personal life” and covers the sub-
themes of “parts of the body and physical features; clothes; days of the week, 
ages and birthdays; weather conditions”. These components (sub-themes) 
are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised use of 
target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and social 
language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed to 
be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within 
and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 11 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3.  Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. 
Trust, D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity,  
D3.5. Open-Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V10. Modesty, V11. 
Independence, V12. Patience, V14. Respect, V15. Love and Affection, V18. 
Cleanliness, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_82 =====
82
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Life Study/ Science of Life, Visual Arts, Music, Physical 
Education and Games
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. 
Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, 
CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_83 =====
83
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 2 is structured based on holistic approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.2.3.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “personal life with basic parts of the human body, physical features, clothes, days 
of the week, ages, and birthdays; weather conditions” 
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures, and context.
ENG.2.3.L2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “personal life with basic parts of 
the human body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, ages, and birthdays; weather 
conditions” together with key details and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.2.3.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “personal life 
with basic parts of the human body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, ages, and 
birthdays; weather conditions” through details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age- and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school. 
ENG.2.3.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “personal life 
with basic parts of the human body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, ages, and 
birthdays; weather conditions” in a very simple way.
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_84 =====
84
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.3.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“personal life with basic parts of the human body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, 
ages, and birthdays; weather conditions” accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous selection and using it in an appropriate and effective way when communicating 
with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups, and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously, and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.2.3.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“personal life with basic parts of the human body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, 
ages, and birthdays; weather conditions”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences, and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.2.3.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “personal life with basic parts of 
the human body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, ages, and birthdays; weather 
conditions” through skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading the 
content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.2.3.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “personal life 
with basic parts of the human body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, ages, and 
birthdays; weather conditions”  by reading it carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it in 
a simple and meaningful way.
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.

===== PDF_PAGE_85 =====
85
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.
ENG.2.3.R4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “personal life with basic parts of 
the human body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, ages, and birthdays; weather 
conditions” for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with 
others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.2.3.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “personal life 
with basic parts of the human body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, ages, and 
birthdays; weather conditions”accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use 
it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic, 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family, and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.2.3.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the 
current content about “personal life with basic parts of the human body, physical features, 
clothes, days of the week, ages, and birthdays; weather conditions”accurately, authentically, 
spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating 
with others.
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.

===== PDF_PAGE_86 =====
86
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically, 
and by pointing.
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.2.3.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “personal 
life with basic parts of the human body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, ages, and 
birthdays; weather conditions”in an age- and level-appropriate way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.2.3.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on “personal 
life with basic parts of the human body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, ages, 
and birthdays; weather conditions”based on the model/example provided to practise for 
further writing activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.2.3.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“personal life with basic parts of the human body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, 
ages, and birthdays; weather conditions”based on the model/example provided.
a) Pupils organise a very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.2.3.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the 
current content “personal life with basic parts of the human body, physical features, clothes, 
days of the week, ages, and birthdays”.
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 

===== PDF_PAGE_87 =====
87
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.3.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks about 
the “personal life with basic parts of the human body, physical features, clothes, days of the 
week, ages, and birthdays; weather conditions”to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully, and individually reorganising it.
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.
ENG.2.3.W6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “personal life with basic parts of 
the human body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, ages, and birthdays; weather 
conditions”very simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both individually 
and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.2.3.S1.  Pupils can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “personal 
life with basic parts of the human body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, ages, and 
birthdays; weather conditions”with the help of supplementary audio-visual materials.
a) Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and imitation after 
completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used during the 
initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current content.
ENG.2.3.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme 
on “personal life with basic parts of the human body, physical features, clothes, days of the 
week, ages, and birthdays; weather conditions”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.2.3.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “personal life with basic parts of the human 
body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, ages, and birthdays; weather conditions” 
by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.
ENG.2.3.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “personal life with basic parts of the human 
body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, ages, and birthdays; weather conditions” 
through reconstruction by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.

===== PDF_PAGE_88 =====
88
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple, and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.
ENG.2.3.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “personal life with basic 
parts of the human body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, ages, and birthdays; 
weather conditions” by reconstructing it to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate, and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.
b) Pupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.
ENG.2.3.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “personal life with basic parts of the human 
body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, ages, and birthdays; weather conditions” 
very simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with 
others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_89 =====
89
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
PERSONAL LIFE: 
Sub-themes: Parts of the body and physical features; clothes; days of the week, ages and birthdays; weather 
conditions
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Parts of the body: A body, a leg(s), a hand(s), an arm(s) a head, a face, an ear(s), an eye(s), a nose, a mouth, 
hair.
Adjectives: Big, short, long, small, tall, blond, dark.
Clothes: Tops: A shirt, a T-shirt, Bottoms: trousers (pants-AmE.), Dresses: a dress, Outwear: a coat, 
Footwear: shoes, Accessories: a hat, a scarf, glasses, gloves, an umbrella.
Ages: I’m seven.
A gift, a birthday.
Days of the week for birthdays: Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday.
Weather: Cold, hot, it’s raining (rainy-AmE.), it’s snowing (snowy-AmE.)
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations:  “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Language Chunks in Use:
Language Chunks (“To be-present): (+), (-), (?): 
How old are you? I’m/am 7. 
Is it your birthday today? Yes, it is. 
What’s/is it? / It/This is a nose/ a shirt. 
What colour is it? (pointing to the nose) It’s/is pink. 
Is she tall? Yes, she is. No, she isn’t/is not. What day is it today? It’s/is Monday today.
How’s the weather? It’s cold.
Functions: Asking and answering about ages of people, their birthdays, parts of their body, physical features, 
days of the week, describing weather conditions.
Have got/ Has got: (+) (-) (?): 
What have you got? I’ve got a nose. How many ears have you got? I’ve got two ears. What have you got? I’ve 
got blue trousers. I’ve got a purple shirt.
Function: Talking about possession, body parts and clothes.
Articles: a/an 
Function: It is taught without its logic; automatic use is expected.
Preposition: on
Function: It is used for describing where things are.
Target Social Language in Use:
Wow!
Great!
That looks great!
Nice eyes/ hair! etc.
Cheer up, everybody!

===== PDF_PAGE_90 =====
90
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Not now!
I’m OK!
You are welcome!
Let’s play together!
It’s late.
Time to sleep!
I see!
Time for school!
See you after school!
That sounds great!
It’s break time!
It’s your turn!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Vowels:  e, i
Consonants: f, g, h, j
Vowels: e: (/e/; /i:/, /ə/); i: (/aı/, /ı/, /i:/) 
Consonants: f: (/f/), g: (/g/, /dʒ/), h: (/h/), j: (/dʒeɪ/, /dʒ/) 
*No pronunciation symbols will be provided in any material written for the pupils, only the sounds in the 
words including them will be practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations 
It is assumed that pupils have the knowledge of their body parts such as body, leg(s), hand(s), arm(s) head, 
face, ear(s), eye(s), nose, mouth, and hair and also ages, clothes, and days of the week in their own language. 
This inner knowledge prepares them to identify the same concepts in another language, in this case English. 
Key Concepts
Parts, body, parts of the body, features, physical features, clothes, days, week, days of the week, ages, 
birthdays, and weather conditions.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Pupils draw a body picture or make a cardboard model of a sweet monster 
or a fancy character sticking the pictures the parts of body on it. (A digital 3D model can also be made). 
They copy the words that go with the pictures and do a show-and-tell to introduce them to the class. This 
performance will be evaluated using rubrics.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on pupils’ knowledge of “personal life” with its components such as “parts of the body and 
physical features; clothes; days of the week, ages and birthdays; weather conditions” in their own language. 
As the pupils are seven-year-old children, they can know what the parts of the body and physical features 
are; what clothes are; what the days of the week are, what ages and birthdays are in their own language, 
Turkish. Pupils know the most basic language chunks “What’s/is it? It’s/is -This is a…”, “What colour …?”  which 
could help them ask and answer questions about many things about “the parts of the body and physical 
features; clothes; days of the week, ages and birthdays; weather conditions”. The basic colours in English 
(black, white, pink, red, yellow, blue, and green) learnt in the previous theme can also be helpful in describing 
some body parts such as “I’ve got blue eyes” and clothes. 
In the classroom, a fun warm-up activity which is not related to the theme “personal life” can be conducted 
as an ice-breaking session to help learners be ready for the whole learning process in the class with positive 
feelings for their well-being. This can be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to a 

===== PDF_PAGE_91 =====
91
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
song/chant/rhyme and so on which will not require any English knowledge and also there will not be a need 
to speak Turkish. 
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is assumed that pupils are suitable for learning about their “parts of the body and physical features; 
clothes; days of the week, ages and birthdays; weather conditions”. in English, taking into account their age, 
level of interest, aptitude for foreign language acquisition and learning, attitudes towards foreign language 
learning, and learning styles. It is expected that pupils’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors 
are appropriate and suitable for learning about this concept and related words and chunks in English (as 
a foreign language). A sample practice could be applied asking them to point to their body parts correctly 
when they are given instructions in Turkish or with mimics and gestures without speaking any English and 
not saying anything in Turkish. 
For pre-evaluation, the teacher could show a body (picture or real) with clothes then she/he could say in 
Turkish “Show me a face! Show me a head!”. The appropriate physical response is expected from the pupils, 
who show the so-called body parts. They do not speak Turkish or English during this activity. They just show 
the part of the body that the teacher says with physical responses and the teacher checks whether they 
know it in their own language. This can be evaluated by an observation scheme.
Establishing Links
Pupils are asked to recall the concept of “personal life with parts of the body and physical features; clothes; 
days of the week, ages and birthdays; weather conditions” by remembering their pre-existing background 
knowledge about them (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with the current 
activities in the theme in English without translating anything until they start learning the target words in 
the current (new) concept “personal life with parts of the body and physical features; clothes; days of the 
week, ages and birthdays; weather conditions” in English.  To remind them of the pre-existing background 
knowledge (they already have in their own language) about the current concept, some related pictures are 
displayed on the walls of the classroom or on the Smart Board before the main teaching/learning flow begins 
in the class. The pictures could be of a doll’s body. All the body parts to be taught in the theme are coloured 
and highlighted separately.  The pictures are shown to the pupils and they are asked if they know what they 
are about in Turkish without giving their English equivalents, as it is only a matter of thinking about the 
visuals presented in their own language as a whole and reflecting that they know what they are saying yes or 
no or nodding their heads. They do not translate anything from Turkish into English or vice versa, and it is a 
short conversation to familiarise them with the concept of body parts.
Some questions can be asked in Turkish:
Have you understood what these are? (The answer is yes or no in Turkish or nodding their heads)
Do you know these words in Turkish? (The answer is yes or no in Turkish or nodding their heads without 
saying the words in Turkish)
An example practice could be done to point correctly to a picture of a body and/or pictures of body parts in 
it correctly when they are given instructions by the teacher with English, Turkish and/or with mimics and 
gestures. Pupils give responses physically by pointing out relevant so-called pictures without speaking any 
English and/or Turkish.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about body parts (in their minds) in 
their own language and the present information about the concept of “body parts” through meaningful 
contextualised activities with visuals within the theme.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME FOR WELL-BEING
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive and 
ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as playing a 
short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, saying a tongue 
twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of 
English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).

===== PDF_PAGE_92 =====
92
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection, and use skills.
ENG.2.3.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current 
theme during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “personal life” in their minds, so a 
further concept check would help them prepare for the current theme (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, CS2.11, 
CS2.16.2). For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and show a card model of a school and 
sets of pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the pupils to point to the pictures in or 
on the model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context of the theme, the introductory 
digital story, that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.8). For each theme, a digitally 
constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through 
the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic 
meaning of the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the 
same time. (A 3-D model of the components of personal life can also be created using Web 2.0 programmes.) 
They can guess the sub-concepts of personal life, so they can easily understand that the current theme will 
be “personal life” (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17).
ENG.2.3.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “personal life 
with parts of the body and physical features; clothes; days of the week, ages and birthdays” as a whole, 
without stopping the video at any point, so that the pupils can understand the theme/topic holistically (D3.2, 
SELS1.1, V3.3, V10.1, V14.2, V15.5, V18.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.14, CS2.16.2).
ENG.2.3.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to 
the content about personal life and its relevant components, some pictures are brought into the classroom 
by the teacher. The teacher brings a necessary number of large boxes for the pictures (some symbols are 
stuck on the boxes for personal life with parts of the body, physical features, clothes, days of the week, ages, 
and birthdays and puts the boxes on the table. She/He puts the corresponding picture into the related box 
when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the introductory digital story without stopping the video 
while the pupils watch the story (V3.3, V10.1, V14.2, V15.5, V18.1, LS1, LS5) . When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the items in the boxes on the table and asks some simple display questions 
about it. In this way, the teacher could carry out a monologue and also engage in a dialogue with the whole 
class to check that they have recognised the theme as a whole through its components, which can be used 
to check their learning as described in item (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, V6.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). After watching the introductory digital 

===== PDF_PAGE_93 =====
93
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
story, the teacher takes all the pictures out of the boxes and puts them back on the table again and says the 
word “personal life” several times aloud, and the pupils repeat after her/him. In this way, the main vocabulary 
of the theme “personal life” is introduced to the pupils in English. To remember the sequence of the scenes 
with the parts, places, and people in the “personal life” in the introductory digital story, the teacher shows the 
mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the pupils to look at the images/ pictures 
of these scenes for a while (CS2.3). She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs with the mixed paper 
pictures she has already given to the pupils (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2) . When the pairs have finished 
sorting the pictures for scenes of the story, the teacher asks the pupils to take turns or volunteer to order 
the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board (or the pictures on the blackboard (SELS1.2, V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, 
LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10). This will help the teacher organise the story as a whole so that the pupils can identify 
the main theme and the components of the theme through their memories (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, CS2.12).
ENG.2.3.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3).
ENG.2.3.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “personal life with parts of the body 
and physical features; clothes; days of the week, ages and birthdays”, the teacher puts on the table the 
pictures and boxes that she/he has previously used. She/He holds up each picture and asks the pupils to 
repeat each word aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to the recordings she/he has prepared 
beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes. She/He puts the picture in the correct box about the group 
corresponding to the word while repeating the words with the whole class (V3.4, V10.1, V14.2, V15.5, V18.1, 
LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer variations with some techniques, such as showing the 
picture of the target words about personal life to the pupils to say the word or pointing to the corresponding 
picture when they hear the word from the recording, and then both. To help the pupils pronounce the words 
accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/
him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers, using the 
shadow technique, in which pupils immediately repeat whatever the teacher is saying or the story, without 
pausing (D1.3, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V3.4, V7.1, LS2, CS2.14).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended with 
different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for the theme and its components, 
the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts them out, the pupils repeat after her/him 
(SELS2.1, CS2.6). Then the teacher and the pupils say the target words and act them out together at the 
same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts them out (V3.4, V4.2, V15.1, LS4).  These 
“personal life”-related actions can be done through the actions which can be done in the school, but they are 
only used for acting without teaching them as verbs in English. For instance, they can pretend to do things 
according to the topic. As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, sadly, angrily 
etc. using different tones of voice through TPR techniques (SELS2.3, V11.1, V12.2, LS5, CS2.9).  Then some 
groups of pupils say the words, some groups of pupils act them out. While doing the repetitions, they point 
to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom. Some action sequences 
are also created through which the pupils can practise the social language expressions of the theme in a fun 
way by repeating, pointing, and miming in several games. Several fun pronunciation games could be played 

===== PDF_PAGE_94 =====
94
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
where pupils whisper a target word into the ears of their peers forming a chain and the last person says it 
aloud and the class checks if the word is pronounced correctly or not (D2.5, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, 
V6.2, LS6, CS2.12). Their learning is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.3.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS : The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract 
from the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading 
sections of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are 
limited reading texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and 
speed reading are used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading 
for detail are used in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading, and post-reading phases are used 
in a simplified and age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend and 
help talk/write about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language and 
communicative competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3). For the initial stage of 
reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, 
scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory 
story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the 
conceptual meanings they already have about the theme on “personal life with parts of the body and physical 
features; clothes; days of the week, ages and birthdays”  (V3.3, V10.1, V14.2, V15.5, V18.1, LS2, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.8). At this stage, the teacher could ask the pupils to read the title/heading of the content and ask the 
pupils which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title by showing them 
a list of words and corresponding pictures to choose the ones they know (SELS1.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.16.2). She/
He reminds them not to ask for the meanings of new words or the words they do not know. She/He reminds 
them that this is only a recalling activity to check the words they know and that there will be time to work on 
the new words of the new theme later (D3.2, D3.6, V12.1, CS2.10, CS2.12).
ENG.2.3.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 3-D 
house model of “personal life” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each item, the written form of the word 
is provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words first silently. The teacher then points 
to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole class. Then she/he invites volunteers 
to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of the class read them aloud as a chorus 
(D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG.2.3.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version 
of the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/Smart Board. She/ He 
asks the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1, 

===== PDF_PAGE_95 =====
95
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14). From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used to 
understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “personal life with parts of the body and physical 
features; clothes; days of the week, ages, and birthdays” (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V10.1, V14.2, V15.5, V18.1, LS5). 
During this process pupils work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings (SELS2.2, 
V4.2, CS2.6). This is evaluated as described in items (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.3.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: 
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1). The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3).
ENG.2.3.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.
ENG.2.3.V2.
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY:  To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to 
the theme “personal life with parts of the body and physical features; clothes; days of the week, ages and 
birthdays”, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story again. A scanning activity 
to find out the main details of the introductory digital story (and/or a new text in the reading section) is 
organised to help pupils to know more about the content. This could help them identify what the target 
words in the text could be about. The activity could be designed by listing some pictures for the vocabulary 
about the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text (V3.3, V3.4, V10.1, V14.2, V15.5, 
V18.1, LS5). Pupils circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen, and scanned (quickly read) in the story/
text. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general by using the main elements and also 
be ready to work on the target vocabulary items (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then, from the beginning, 
whenever an item related to “personal life” is mentioned, the teacher stops the video and asks a question in 
the form of two options by showing their pictures (CS2.6). By guessing what they are based on the pictures, 
the scene, and the sound, pupils hear the English equivalents of the words for personal life with parts of the 
body and physical features; clothes; days of the week, ages and birthdays, and they answer as a whole class. 
In this way, they are introduced to the meaning of the target words (D1.1, CS2.10). This is done in the form of 
a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (SELS2.1) (3) and (8) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.2, V14.1, V10.1, V14.2, V15.5, V18.1, LS1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.3.V3.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “personal life”, the teacher prepares an activity using the Web 2.0 program with images/
pictures of components of “personal life”. She/He prepares three boxes on one side of the screen and mixed 
images/ pictures for target vocabulary related to the “personal life” on the other side. She/He asks the 
pupils to look at the mixed pile of images/pictures on the Smart Board screen and scan them for a while to 

===== PDF_PAGE_96 =====
96
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
remember them (CS2.4). She/He asks the pupils to drag the objects about the components of the theme 
into the correct box on the screen. The boxes have the words for each component represented on them with 
symbolic pictures. The pupils are given the cut-out pictures and a large sheet of paper with the pictures of 
empty boxes. The teacher asks them to work in pairs and put the cut-out pictures in the right box and ask 
each other several display questions (CS2.5). When the pupils have finished working with the cut-outs and 
asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the 
Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures as the components of the theme “personal life” 
to the correct empty boxes on the screen (SELS1.2, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant 
to the concept of the theme “personal life” are consolidated through categorisation. The same activity 
can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. To practise 
the meanings of the target words about the school, the teacher places several pictures for them in the 
different parts of the classroom. She/He then puts some flashcards with the target vocabulary for “personal 
life” on the blackboard/whiteboard. She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows it to the pupils. Pupils, 
working in pairs, look at the flashcard, decide which picture on the classroom walls is relevant, they go to the 
picture together, pin the flashcard to the noticeboard and say the word together first in pairs, and then as a 
whole class (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.5) . To consolidate the meanings of the new 
vocabulary items for the concept of “personal life”, the teacher could organise several activities in pairs and 
groups with pictures and flashcards such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, etc. (SELS2.2). 
These activities are closed and controlled so that pupils can practise the current (new) vocabulary about the 
current context in the beginning but later they work with simple and easy open-ended and communicative 
activities (D2.5, SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5). This is evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The teacher asks the pupils to 
copy the words in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling using the words written on the model school on the blackboard/
Smart Board (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). This is evaluated as described in items (3) and 
(4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.3.G1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS: To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language chunks 
of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target language chunks 
about the theme “personal life with parts of the body and physical features; clothes; days of the week, ages 
and birthdays” (D3.2, V10.1, V14.2, V15.5, V18.1, LS5, CS2.2). While the pupils watch the introductory digital 
story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the 
action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the pupils to do the same (CS2.14). She/He could 
hold up large pictures and ask the pupils questions about the pictures with the target chunks expecting the 
pupils to ask and answer by using the target chunks. To check the pupils’ identification of the target language 
chunks, the teacher shows some picture strips that she/he has prepared for this activity, using some Web 
2.0 programmes, after the pupils have watched the introductory digital story and imitated the actions and 
said the target language chunks. She/He asks the pupils to listen to her/him saying a target language chunk 
and then to look at the screen and say “Stop!” when they see a scene in the picture strips with the target 
chunk that the teacher has just said (SELS3.1, CS2.7). The teacher stops if the pupils are correct, but not if 
they are not (V3.3, V4.1, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.2.3.G2.
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme “personal life with parts of the body and physical features; clothes; days of the week, ages and 
birthdays”, and writes the appropriate language chunks to be used with each of the groups. She/He also 
provides the vocabulary items on the Smart Board screen. The teacher wants the pupils to think for a while 
and talk with their peers about which target words can be used in which language chunk group (SELS2.2, 

===== PDF_PAGE_97 =====
97
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
V3.1, V10.3, V10.1, V14.2, V15.5, V18.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.4).  Then the pupils go to the board and move the 
words under the correct heading and say the complete sentence with the target words and the chunks. They 
are then asked to say a sentence with the target chunk aloud as a class. Each sentence is repeated after each 
pair. Their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum. The same game can be played with pictures on the blackboard if 
there are technological/technical problems (D2.5). To organise the pupils’ further practice to consolidate the 
target language chunks, the teacher could create some action sequences in context by repeating, saying, 
and acting out with different activity bundles where their learning can be checked as described in items (5), 
(8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (CS2.13). There 
is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Pupils can automatically, spontaneously, 
and naturally select and use the target language chunks in the current context (SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, 
LS5, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  For consolidation of the target language chunks, the teacher can facilitate 
more fun activities and games so that the pupils can practise and consolidate them (V4.4, V7.2).
ENG.2.3.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by using 
language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme which 
is about “personal life with parts of the body and physical features; clothes; days of the week, ages and 
birthdays” as in other themes. Writing activities are arranged according to age and level so they are quite 
limited and are gradually expanded (V3.2, V3.4, V10.1, V14.2, V15.5, V18.1, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.3.W2.
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions with 
a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are asked 
to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they get used 
to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written language 
(D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). To further practise guided and copied writing, the teacher gives 
all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2) (of two, three, four etc.) 
and to write the names of the vocabulary items “personal life with parts of the body and physical features; 
clothes; days of the week, ages and birthdays” next to their drawings on the model related to personal life. 
The teacher asks them to look at the Smart Board screen with the model related to personal life that she/he 
has made earlier so that the pupils can easily copy the target words for the items as described in item (3) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.4, V7.3, V10.1, V14.2, V15.5, 
V18.1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.3.W3.
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form of a 
new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/writing 
(copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “personal life” in fun, enjoyable, varied, 
and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, practical, and appropriate to the pupils’ age 
and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.20).

===== PDF_PAGE_98 =====
98
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.3.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.2.3.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme “personal life with parts of the body and 
physical features; clothes; days of the week, ages and birthdays” from simple to more expanded versions 
in their writing (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V4.2, V10.1, V14.2, V15.1, V15.5, V18.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20).  AI-based 
technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also 
produce simple digital materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways (D3.3, SELS3.2, 
SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These activities can be evaluated as described in items (8), (9), (10), 
(11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.3.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing expression process and asks them to express their  
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15). Pupils express what they think and feel about them. 
Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, SELS2.2). 
The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative  
design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.2.3.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme about “personal 
life with parts of the body and physical features; clothes; days of the week, ages and birthdays” (V3.2, V4.2, 
V10.1, V14.2, V15.5, V18.1, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.3.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6). They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.
ENG.2.3.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo/picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).

===== PDF_PAGE_99 =====
99
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.3.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. To interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “personal life with parts of the body and physical 
features; clothes; days of the week, ages and birthdays” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V11.1, V10.1, V14.2, V15.5, 
V18.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access 
to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings for developing their oral skills (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V3.4, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).
ENG.2.3.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Pupils communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related 
to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can 
be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision. These new contents created 
are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level. 
Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used together with other 
further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, LS1) . Pupils are encouraged to produce 
several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, show and tell activities, acting 
out activities to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by 
using the language including the target words, language grammar in use, and the social language for the 
theme “personal life” and its components such as “parts of the body and physical features; clothes; days of 
the week, ages and birthdays; weather conditions” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V7.2, V10.1, V14.2, V15.5, V18.1, 
LS4, LS5, CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to 
authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items 
(7), (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
Then they can expand their language use and practise by communicating with others.
ENG.2.3.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.15).  The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_100 =====
100
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Activity: “My Funny Puppet”
Objective: To consolidate and improve pupils’ knowledge and skills about parts of the body in English. 
Activity 1: Flashcard game
The teacher uses pictures and flashcards to introduce body parts (head, arms, legs, eyes, ears, etc.).  Pupils 
repeat these words together, and the teacher shows and points to each part. Pupils reflect on their thoughts 
and feelings about the activity by using emoticons. 
Activity 2: Puppet game
Pupils are introduced to the “My Funny Puppet” activity. Each pupil will draw a funny puppet from their 
imagination and label its body parts. Pupils are asked to draw their own puppet and label the body parts. 
In addition to the drawing, pupils are asked to make their puppet talk by using self-introduction phrases 
learned in the first theme along with body parts (e.g., “My name is … I have a pink nose; I have two yellow 
ears”). For presentation and sharing, the puppets are shown to the classmates, and the puppets with labelled 
body parts are displayed on the class bulletin board. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the 
activity by using emoticons. 
Activity 3: Dialogue game
A flashcard is shown, the word is said, and it is repeated by the pupils. Then, the pupils are asked to point to 
the corresponding body part on themselves. Additionally, high achiever pupils are asked to use the word in a 
sentence describing the body part and its colour. They are also encouraged to create a short dialogue with a 
peer. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
Supporting
Objective: To consolidate and improve pupils’ knowledge and skills on talking about parts of the body in 
English. 
Activity 1: Flashcard game
The teachers show a flashcard, say the word and have the pupils repeat it. Then, the pupils are asked to point 
to the corresponding part of their body. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by 
using emoticons. 
Activity 2: Puppet game
A simple puppet template is given to the pupils. The positions of the body parts (e.g., head, arms, legs, eyes) 
are shown on the template. The template is coloured by the pupils, and the names of the body parts are 
written with the help of the teacher. The template is then cut out and the puppet is made. They repeat the 
words as a whole class. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE.     

===== PDF_PAGE_101 =====
101
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 4: FAMILY LIFE
Sub-theme: Family members and family members’ 
physical appearances and physical features 
This theme is centred on the concept of “family life” and covers the sub-themes 
of “family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical 
features”. These components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning 
process through the contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical 
structures, phonological features, and social language expressions. The 
learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, 
and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ developmental 
level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to 
equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively 
use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 11 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3.  Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity,  
D3.5. Open-Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V2. Family Integrity, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, 
V8. Privacy, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, V14. Respect, V15. 
Love and Affection, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Life Study/ Science of Life, Visual Arts, Music, Physical 
Education and Games

===== PDF_PAGE_102 =====
102
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. 
Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, 
CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_103 =====
103
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 2 is structured based on holistic approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.2.4.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “family life with family members and family members’ physical appearances and 
physical features”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures and context.
ENG.2.4.L2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “family life with family members and 
family members’ physical appearances and physical features” together with key details and 
main components while listening/watching it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.2.4.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “family life with 
family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical features” through 
details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age- and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school. 
ENG.2.4.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “family life 
with family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical features” in a 
very simple way.
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_104 =====
104
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.4.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“family life with family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical 
features” accurately, authentically, and naturally through spontaneous selection and using it 
in an appropriate and effective way when communicating with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups, and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously, and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.2.4.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“family life with family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical 
features”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences, and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.2.4.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “family life with family members 
and family members’ physical appearances and physical features” through skimming (looking 
quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.2.4.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “family life with 
family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical features” by reading 
it carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it 
in a simple and meaningful way.
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_105 =====
105
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.4.R4.  Pupils can  convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “family life with family members 
and family members’ physical appearances and physical features” for reflection in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.2.4.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “family life with 
family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical features” accurately, 
authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when 
communicating with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group, and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.2.4.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the current 
content about “family life with family members and family members’ physical appearances 
and physical features” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it 
appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically 
and by pointing.
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.

===== PDF_PAGE_106 =====
106
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.2.4.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “family 
life with family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical features” in 
an age- and level-appropriate way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.2.4.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on “family 
life with family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical features” 
based on the model/example provided to practise for further writing activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.2.4.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“family life with family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical 
features” based on the model/example provided.
a) Pupils organise very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.2.4.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the 
current content “family life with family members and family members’ physical appearances 
and physical features”.
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 
ENG.2.4.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks about 
the “family life with family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical 
features” to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully and individually reorganising it.
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_107 =====
107
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.4.W6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “family life with family members and family 
members’ physical appearances and physical features” very simply for reflection in relation 
to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.2.4.S1.  Pupils can get ready for the speaking-expression process about the current content on “family 
life with family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical features” 
with the help of supplementary audio-visual materials.
a) Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and imitation after 
completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used during the 
initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current content.
ENG.2.4.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme 
on “family life with family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical 
features”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.2.4.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “family life with family members and family 
members’ physical appearances and physical features” by speaking accurately, efficiently, 
and authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.
ENG.2.4.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “family life with family members and family 
members’ physical appearances and physical features” through reconstruction by speaking 
accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.

===== PDF_PAGE_108 =====
108
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.4.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “family life with family 
members and family members’ physical appearances and physical features” by reconstructing 
it to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate, and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.
b) Pupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.
ENG.2.4.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “family life with family members and family 
members’ physical appearances and physical features” very simply for reflection in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_109 =====
109
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
FAMILY LIFE:
Sub-theme: Family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical features
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Family members: A family, a father, a mother, a sister, a brother, a grandfather, a grandmother, a baby, a son, 
a daughter, a friend, mum, dad. 
Physical appearances (Descriptive adjectives): Nice, beautiful, blond, tall, short, handsome.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations:  “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum. 
Target Language Chunks: 
- “To be-present (+), (-), (?)”: 
Language Chunks: Who is he? Who is she? He’s/is my father. She’s/is my mother.
Function: Asking and identifying people
-Have/has got:
Chunks: What colour eyes has your mother got? My mother’s/has got blue eyes. She’s/has got blue eyes 
(Description with eye colour is used to describe family members but the question form as “What colour eyes 
has she got? is NOT taught at this stage).
Function: Describing physical features
Target Social Language in Use:
I’m sorry! 
I’m sorry, Mum! Dad! Grandma! Grandpa!
That’s fine!
It’s/That’s all right!  All right!
What about me?
You look great!
It’s very lovely!
Look!
Over there!
It’s lunchtime!
I’m hungry!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Vowel: o
Consonants: k, l, m, n, p
Vowel: o: (/əʊ/, /ɒ/, /əʊ/)
Consonants:  k: (/k/); l: (/ɛl/, /l/); m: (/ɛm/, /m/); n: (/ɛn/, /n/); p: (piː/, /p/)
*No pronunciation symbols will be provided in any material written for the pupils, only the sounds in the 
words including them will be practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_110 =====
110
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations
Knowledge of family is present in all languages in the world. Anyone who begins to learn a new language 
brings with them their pre-existing knowledge and transfers it into their new language learning. Therefore, 
a primary school pupil will know what a family is as a concept but will not know its equivalents in a foreign 
language. However, this existing knowledge will help her recognise, understand, and learn it.
Key Concepts:
Appearance, physical appearances, features, physical features, members, family, family members, family 
members’ physical appearances, family members’ physical features.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Pupils are asked to make self-recordings (visual, audio) at school/ about 
their family members and their physical features such as the colour of their eyes or hair, or saying whether 
their noses or ears are big or small or whether their legs are short or long etc. They can present their work 
to the class by using Fact Files and avatars that they have made. They can use both digital resources and 
papers/cardboard. Then they can give feedback to each other using emoticons.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of family members in their own language. As Year 2 Primary 
school pupils, they can know what a family is and what its members are. It is also assumed that they know 
how to describe their physical traits such as the colour of their eyes or hair, in their own language, Turkish. 
They know some language chunks such as “This is … What colour…?  as well as the basic colours (black, 
white, pink, red, yellow, blue, and green) in English, that they learned in the previous themes, which could 
help them ask and answer questions about family members and their physical traits such as “My mother’s/
has got blue eyes” in this theme. 
As an initial start, a fun non-theme warm-up activity is done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive 
and ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as a 
short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme and so on that does not require any 
knowledge of English and also there will not be a need to speak Turkish.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is assumed that pupils have the knowledge of their family members such as their father, mother, sister, 
brother, grandmother, and grandfather in their own language. This knowledge prepares them to identify 
the same concept in English as their foreign language. Besides, they could use some additional language 
elements such as colours (blue, green…), numbers (1-2) and basic adjectives (small, big…) to describe the 
physical features of family members in a simple way. It is expected that pupils’ physical, cognitive, affective, 
and social factors are appropriate and suitable for learning about family members and related physical 
descriptions using basic colours to talk about their eye colours or using adjectives such as small, big, long, 
and short in English. An example of an exercise might be to point correctly to family members in a picture 
by giving instructions in Turkish without speaking any English without letting the pupils speak Turkish or 
English. Instructions such as “Show me the father in this family! Show me the grandfather in this family!” 
are given in Turkish and pupils can respond physically by pointing to the relevant family members without 
speaking.
Establishing Links
Pupils are asked to recall the concept of “family and family members” by remembering their pre-existing 
background knowledge about them (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with 
the current activities in the theme in English without translating anything until they start learning the target 
words in the current (new) concept, “family” in English. 

===== PDF_PAGE_111 =====
111
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge about the concept of “family”, a very short 
cartoon film of a very famous and popular family known to the pupils is shown on the Smart Board before the 
main teaching/learning flow in the class begins.
The teacher asks pupils to watch the film and they do it.  When they have finished watching the film, the 
teacher asks them in Turkish what the film was about and wants the answer aloud in chorus as the whole 
class in Turkish: “… family!”
The teacher asks them to think about this until they watch the next film, which is the main entry material of 
the theme, the digital story, without asking any further questions in Turkish or English.
An example practice could be done to point correctly to a picture of a family and pictures of family members 
in it correctly when they are given instructions by the teacher with English, Turkish and/or with mimics and 
gestures. Pupils give responses by pointing out relevant so-called pictures without speaking any English 
and/or Turkish.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about school (in their minds) in their 
own language and the present information about the concept of “family” through meaningful contextualised 
activities with visuals within the theme.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME FOR WELL-BEING
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive and 
ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as playing a 
short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, saying a tongue 
twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of 
English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG.2.4.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current 
theme during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “family life” in their minds, so a 
further concept check would help them prepare for the current theme (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, CS2.11, 
CS2.16.2). For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and show a card model of a school and 
sets of pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the pupils to point to the pictures in or 
on the model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context of the theme, the introductory 
digital story, that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.8). For each theme, a digitally 
constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going 
through the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and 
semantic meaning of the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme 

===== PDF_PAGE_112 =====
112
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
at the same time. (A 3-D model of family members can also be created using Web 2.0 programmes.) They can 
guess the sub-concepts of family life, so they can easily understand that the current theme will be “family 
life” (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V2.1, V2.3, V3.4, V8.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17).
ENG.2.4.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “family life 
with family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical features” as a whole, without 
stopping the video at any point, so that the pupils can understand the theme/topic holistically (D3.2, SELS1.1, 
V2.1, V2.3, V3.3, V8.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.14, CS2.16.2).
ENG.2.4.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to 
the content about family life and its relevant components, some pictures are brought into the classroom by 
the teacher. The teacher brings a necessary number of large boxes for the pictures (some symbols are stuck 
on the boxes for family life with family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical 
features and puts the boxes on the table. She/He puts the corresponding picture into the related box when 
the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the introductory digital story without stopping the video 
while the pupils watch the story (V2.1, V2.3, V3.3, V8.3, LS1, LS5). When they have watched the whole story, 
the teacher shows the items in the boxes on the table and asks some simple display questions about it. In 
this way, the teacher could carry out a monologue and also engage in a dialogue with the whole class to 
check that they have recognised the theme as a whole through its components, which can be used to check 
their learning as described in item (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, V6.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8).  After watching the introductory digital story, 
the teacher takes all the pictures out of the boxes and puts them back on the table again and says the word 
“family life” several times aloud, and the pupils repeat after her/him. In this way, the main vocabulary of the 
theme “family life” is introduced to the pupils in English. To remember the sequence of the scenes with the 
parts, places, and people in the “family life” in the introductory digital story, the teacher shows the mixed 
images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the pupils to look at the images/ pictures of 
these scenes for a while (CS2.3). She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs with the mixed paper 
pictures she has already given to the pupils (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2) . When the pairs have finished 
sorting the pictures for scenes of the story, the teacher asks the pupils to take turns or volunteer to order 
the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board (or the pictures on the blackboard (SELS1.2, V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, 
LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10). This will help the teacher organise the story as a whole so that the pupils can identify 
the main theme and the components of the theme through their memories (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, CS2.12).
ENG.2.4.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3).

===== PDF_PAGE_113 =====
113
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.4.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “family life with family members and 
family members’ physical appearances and physical features”, the teacher puts on the table the pictures 
and boxes that she/he has previously used. She/He holds up each picture and asks the pupils to repeat each 
word aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to the recordings she/he has prepared beforehand 
using some Web 2.0 programmes. She/He puts the picture in the correct box about the group corresponding 
to the word while repeating the words with the whole class (V2.1, V2.3, V3.4, V8.3, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.16.3). 
The teacher could offer variations with some techniques, such as showing the picture of the target words 
about family to the pupils to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear the word 
from the recording, and then both. To help the pupils pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks 
them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in 
large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers, using the shadow technique, in which pupils 
immediately repeat whatever the teacher is saying or the story, without pausing (D1.3, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, 
V3.4, V7.1, LS2, CS2.14).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended with 
different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for the family life and its 
components, the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts them out, the pupils repeat 
after her/him (SELS2.1, CS2.6). Then the teacher and the pupils say the target words and act them out 
together at the same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts them out (V3.4, V4.2, V15.1, 
LS4). These “family life”-related actions can be done through the actions which can be done in the school, 
but they are only used for acting without teaching them as verbs in English. For instance, they can pretend 
to do things according to the topic. As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, 
sadly, angrily etc. using different tones of voice through TPR techniques (SELS2.3, V11.1, V12.2, LS5, CS2.9). 
Then some groups of pupils say the words, some groups of pupils act them out. While doing the repetitions, 
they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom. Some action 
sequences are also created through which the pupils can practise the social language expressions of the 
theme in a fun way by repeating, pointing, and miming in several games. Several fun pronunciation games 
could be played where pupils whisper a target word into the ears of their peers forming a chain and the 
last person says it aloud and the class checks if the word is pronounced correctly or not (D2.5, SELS2.1, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, V6.2, LS6, CS2.12).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.4.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS : The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract 
from the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading 
sections of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are 
limited reading texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and 
speed reading are used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading 
for detail are used in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases are used 
in a simplified and age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend and 
help talk/write about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language and 
communicative competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3). For the initial stage of 
reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, 
scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory 

===== PDF_PAGE_114 =====
114
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall 
the conceptual meanings they already have about the theme on “family life with family members and family 
members’ physical appearances and physical features” (V2.1, V2.3, V3.3, V8.3, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.8). At 
this stage, the teacher could ask the pupils to read the title/heading of the content and ask the pupils which 
words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title by showing them a list of 
words and corresponding pictures to choose the ones they know (SELS1.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.16.2).  She/He 
reminds them not to ask for the meanings of new words or the words they do not know. She/He reminds 
them that this is only a recalling activity to check the words they know and that there will be time to work on 
the new words of the new theme later (D3.2, D3.6, V12.1, CS2.10, CS2.12).
ENG.2.4.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 3-D 
house model of “family life” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each item, the written form of the word is 
provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words first silently. The teacher then points 
to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole class. Then she/he invites volunteers 
to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of the class read them aloud as a chorus 
(D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG.2.4.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version 
of the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/Smart Board. She/ He 
asks the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14) . From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used 
to understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “family life with family members and family 
members’ physical appearances and physical features” (SELS3.1, SELS3.2). During this process pupils work 
collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings (SELS2.2, V2.1, V2.3, V4.2, V8.3, LS5, CS2.6). 
This is evaluated as described in items (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.4.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: 
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1). The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3).

===== PDF_PAGE_115 =====
115
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.4.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.
ENG.2.4.V2.
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to the 
theme “family life with family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical features”, 
the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story again. A scanning activity to find out 
the main details of the introductory digital story (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to 
help pupils to know more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text 
could be about. The activity could be designed by listing some pictures for the vocabulary about the main 
components of the theme that take place in the story/text (V2.1, V2.3, V3.3, V3.4, V8.3, LS5). Pupils circle 
or tick the ones that they have heard, seen, and scanned (quickly read) in the story/text. In this way, they 
will be able to understand the story/text in general by using the main elements and also be ready to work 
on the target vocabulary items (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7).  Then, from the beginning, whenever an 
item related to “family life” is mentioned, the teacher stops the video and asks a question in the form of two 
options by showing their pictures (CS2.6). By guessing what they are based on the pictures, the scene, and 
the sound, pupils hear the English equivalents of the words for the family life with family members and family 
members’ physical appearances and physical features, and they answer as a whole class. In this way, they are 
introduced to the meaning of the target words (D1.1, V2.1, V2.3, V8.3, LS5, CS2.10). This is done in the form of 
a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (SELS2.1) (3) and (8) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.2, V14.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.2.4.V3.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “family life”, the teacher prepares an activity using the Web 2.0 program with images/
pictures of components of “family life”. She/He prepares three boxes on one side of the screen and mixed 
images/ pictures for target vocabulary related to the “family life” on the other side. She/He asks the pupils 
to look at the mixed pile of images/pictures on the Smart Board screen and scan them for a while to 
remember them (CS2.4). She/He asks the pupils to drag the objects about the components of the theme 
into the correct box on the screen. The boxes have the words for each component represented on them with 
symbolic pictures. The pupils are given the cut-out pictures and a large sheet of paper with the pictures 
of empty boxes. The teacher asks them to work in pairs and put the cut-out pictures in the right box and 
ask each other several display questions (CS2.5). When the pupils have finished working with the cut-
outs and asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer 
to go to the Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures as the components of the theme 
“family life” to the correct empty boxes on the screen (SELS1.2, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are 
relevant to the concept of the theme “family life” are consolidated through categorisation. The same activity 
can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. To practise 
the meanings of the target words about the school, the teacher places several pictures for them in the 
different parts of the classroom. She/He then puts some flashcards with the target vocabulary for “family 
life” on the blackboard/whiteboard. She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows it to the pupils. Pupils, 
working in pairs, look at the flashcard, decide which picture on the classroom walls is relevant, they go to 
the picture together, pin the flashcard to the noticeboard and say the word together first in pairs, and then 
as a whole class (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.5) . To consolidate the meanings of the 
new vocabulary items for the concept of “family”, the teacher could organise several activities in pairs and 
groups with pictures and flashcards such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, etc. (SELS2.2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_116 =====
116
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
These activities are closed and controlled so that pupils can practise the current (new) vocabulary about the 
current context in the beginning but later they work with simple and easy open-ended and communicative 
activities (D2.5, SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5). This is evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The teacher asks the pupils to 
copy the words in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling using the words written on the model school on the blackboard/
Smart Board (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). This is evaluated as described in items (3) and 
(4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.4.G1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS:  To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target language 
chunks about the theme “family life with family members and family members’ physical appearances and 
physical features” (D3.2, V2.1, V2.3, V8.3, LS5, CS2.2). While the pupils watch the introductory digital story, 
the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by 
showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the pupils to do the same (CS2.14). She/He could hold up 
large pictures and ask the pupils questions about the pictures with the target chunks expecting the pupils 
to ask and answer by using the target chunks. To check the pupils’ identification of the target language 
chunks, the teacher shows some picture strips that she/he has prepared for this activity, using some Web 
2.0 programmes, after the pupils have watched the introductory digital story and imitated the actions and 
said the target language chunks. She/He asks the pupils to listen to her/him saying a target language chunk 
and then to look at the screen and say “Stop!” when they see a scene in the picture strips with the target 
chunk that the teacher has just said (SELS3.1, CS2.7). The teacher stops if the pupils are correct, but not if 
they are not (V3.3, V4.1, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.2.4.G2.
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme “family life with family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical 
features”, and writes the appropriate language chunks to be used with each of the groups. She/He also 
provides the vocabulary items on the Smart Board screen. The teacher wants the pupils to think for a while 
and talk with their peers about which target words can be used in which language chunk group (SELS2.2, 
V2.1, V2.3, V3.1, V8.3, V10.3, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.4).  Then the pupils go to the board and move the words 
under the correct heading and say the complete sentence with the target words and the chunks. They are 
then asked to say a sentence with the target chunk aloud as a class. Each sentence is repeated after each 
pair. Their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum. The same game can be played with pictures on the blackboard if 
there are technological/technical problems (D2.5). To organise the pupils’ further practice to consolidate the 
target language chunks, the teacher could create some action sequences in context by repeating, saying, 
and acting out with different activity bundles where their learning can be checked as described in items (5), 
(8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (CS2.13). There 
is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Pupils can automatically, spontaneously, 
and naturally select and use the target language chunks in the current context (SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, 
LS5, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  For consolidation of the target language chunks, the teacher can facilitate 
more fun activities and games so that the pupils can practise and consolidate them (V4.4, V7.2).

===== PDF_PAGE_117 =====
117
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.4.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by using 
language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme which 
is about “family life with family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical features” 
as in other themes. Writing activities are arranged according to age and level so they are quite limited and 
are gradually expanded (V2.1, V2.3, V3.2, V3.4, V8.3, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.4.W2.
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions with 
a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are asked 
to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they get used 
to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written language 
(D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). To further practise guided and copied writing, the teacher gives 
all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2) (of two, three, four etc.) 
and to write the names of the vocabulary items “family life with family members and family members’ physical 
appearances and physical features” next to their drawings on the model related to family life. The teacher 
asks them to look at the Smart Board screen with the model related to family life that she/he has made 
earlier so that the pupils can easily copy the target words for the items as described in item (3) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V2.1, V2.3, V4.4, V7.3, V8.3, LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.4.W3.
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form of a 
new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/writing 
(copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “family life” in fun, enjoyable, varied, 
and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, practical, and appropriate to the pupils’ age 
and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.20).
ENG.2.4.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.2.4.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme “family life with family members and family 
members’ physical appearances and physical features” from simple to more expanded versions in their 
writing (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V2.1, V2.3, V4.2, V8.3, V15.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can 
be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce simple 
digital materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, 

===== PDF_PAGE_118 =====
118
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These activities can be evaluated as described in items (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.4.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing expression process and asks them to express their  
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15).  Pupils express what they think and feel about 
them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, 
SELS2.2). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and  
collaborative design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.2.4.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme about “family 
life with family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical features” (V2.1, V2.3, V3.2, 
V4.2, V8.3, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.4.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6). They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.
ENG.2.4.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo/picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).
ENG.2.4.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. To interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “family life with family members and family members’ 
physical appearances and physical features” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V2.1, V2.3, V4.2, V8.3, V11.1, LS1, LS4, 
LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings for 
developing their oral skills (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V3.4, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).
ENG.2.4.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Pupils communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related 
to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can 
be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision. These new contents created 

===== PDF_PAGE_119 =====
119
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level. 
Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used together with other 
further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, LS1). Pupils are encouraged to produce several 
spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, show and tell activities, acting out 
activities to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the 
language including the target words, language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “family 
life” and its components such as “family members and family members’ physical appearances and physical 
features” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V2.1, V2.3, V4.2, V7.2, V8.3, LS4, LS5, CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies 
can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital 
materials and projects at school and at home through recordings (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, 
CS2.20). These are evaluated as described in items (7), (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use and practise by 
communicating with others.
ENG.2.4.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.15).  The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To consolidate and improve their knowledge and skills about their family members in English. 
Activity 1: Family Tree
The teacher explains to the pupils that they are going to make a “Family Tree”. Flashcards with pictures and 
words (e.g., “mother” with a picture of a mother) are provided for vocabulary practice and/or each pupil will 
draw or bring pictures of their family members. A template of a family tree with labels for each family member 
is provided with the pupils. The names of family members such as father, mother etc… are provided as a list 
on the blackboard / whiteboard / Smart Board screen. Pupils look at the family tree and paste the cut-out 
pictures on the right branches of the tree and also copy the names of family members by copying from the 
board. They write complete chunks next to the pictures. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about 
the activity by using emoticons.
Supporting
Objective: To help and support pupils practise and improve their knowledge and skills about using the 
related to   their family members and their physical traits in English.
Activity 1: Family Album
The teacher explains to the pupils that they are going to make a “Family Album”. Each pupil will draw or bring 
pictures of their family members and put them in an album. The teacher provides the pupils with a blank 
album template. Each page is dedicated to one family member. Pupils colour and paste in the pictures of 
family members (mother, father, sister, brother) provided or bring photos of their own family members to 
paste in the album template. With the help of the teacher, the pupils copy the names of their family members 

===== PDF_PAGE_120 =====
120
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
under each picture (e.g., “This is my mother”) from the models. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings 
about the activity by using emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE.     

===== PDF_PAGE_121 =====
121
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 5: HOMES & HOUSES & NEIGHBOURHOODS
Sub-theme: Parts, rooms and furniture in the house; 
pets in the house
This theme is centred on the concept of “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods” 
and covers the sub-themes of “parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in 
the house”. These components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning 
process through the contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical 
structures, phonological features, and social language expressions. The 
learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, 
and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ developmental 
level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to 
equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively 
use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 11 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3.  Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity,  
D3.5. Open-Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V9. 
Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, V14. Respect, 
V15. Love and Affection, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_122 =====
122
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Life Study/ Science of Life, Visual Arts, Music, Physical 
Education and Games
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. 
Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, 
CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_123 =====
123
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 2 is structured based on holistic approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.2.5.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “homes, houses and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; 
pets in the house”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures and context.
ENG.2.5.L2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “homes, houses and neighbourhoods 
with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” together with key details and 
main components while listening/watching it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.2.5.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “homes, houses 
and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” through 
details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school.
ENG.2.5.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “homes, 
houses and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” 
in a very simple way.
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_124 =====
124
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.5.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“homes, houses and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the 
house” accurately, authentically, and naturally through spontaneous selection and using it in 
an appropriate and effective way when communicating with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously, and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.2.5.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“homes, houses and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the 
house”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.2.5.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “homes, houses and neighbourhoods 
with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” through skimming (looking 
quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.2.5.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “homes, houses 
and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” by 
reading it carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it 
in a simple and meaningful way.
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_125 =====
125
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.5.R4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the reading-
comprehension process about the current content, “homes, houses and neighbourhoods 
with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” for reflection in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.2.5.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “homes, 
houses and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” 
accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively 
when communicating with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group, and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.2.5.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the current 
content about “homes, houses and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the 
house; pets in the house” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it 
appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically 
and by pointing.

===== PDF_PAGE_126 =====
126
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.2.5.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “homes, 
houses and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” 
in an age- and level-appropriate way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.2.5.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on “homes, 
houses and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” 
based on the model/example provided to practise for further writing activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.2.5.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“homes, houses and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the 
house” based on the model/example provided.
a) Pupils organise a very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.2.5.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the 
current content “homes, houses and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the 
house; pets in the house”.
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 
ENG.2.5.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks about 
the “homes, houses and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets 
in the house” to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully, and individually reorganising it.
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_127 =====
127
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.5.W6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “homes, houses and neighbourhoods 
with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” very simply for reflection in 
relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.2.5.S1.  Pupils can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “homes, 
houses and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” 
with the help of supplementary audio-visual materials.
a) Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and imitation after 
completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used during the 
initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current content.
ENG.2.5.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme 
on “homes, houses and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in 
the house”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.2.5.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “homes, houses and neighbourhoods with 
parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” by speaking accurately, efficiently, 
and authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.
ENG.2.5.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “homes, houses and neighbourhoods with 
parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” through reconstruction by speaking 
accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.

===== PDF_PAGE_128 =====
128
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.5.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “homes, houses 
and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” by 
reconstructing it to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate, and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.
b) Pupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.
ENG.2.5.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “homes, houses and neighbourhoods with 
parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” very simply for reflection in relation 
to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_129 =====
129
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
HOMES & HOUSES & NEIGHBOURHOODS
Sub-themes: Parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary): 
Parts of the house: A bedroom, a bathroom, sitting-room (living room-AmE.), a kitchen, a garden, a dining 
room, a balcony, a doorbell, a dollhouse.
House furniture: A bed, a sofa, a coffee table.
Pets in the house: A pet, a dog, a cat, a rabbit, a bird, a (gold)fish.
Parts of the body of a pet: A tail, whiskers, a claw, a paw, a beak.
Preposition of a place: In, on.
Verbs: to dance.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Language Chunks:
“Have got/has got”: (We’ve/have got a house. We’ve got two pets).
Function: Expressing possession or ownership of objects.
“To be” - present: (Where’s/is the bed? The bed is in the bedroom. Where’s/is the cat? The cat is in the kitchen).
Function: Describing the location of objects.
“There is/there are”: (There are five cats in the sitting room).
Function: Describing the existence or presence of objects.
Target Social Language in Use:
Here’s a…! 
Come and see! 
Let’s look at…!
Come on!
Hold on.
Really?
That looks great!
Look around!
Listen to music!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
 q, r, s, t, v, w
Consonants: q: (/kjuː/); r: (/ɑː/(Br), /r/ (AmE.)); s: (/s/, /ɛs/, /z/); t: (/tiː/, /t/); v: (/viː/, /v/) 
*No pronunciation symbols will be provided in any material written for the pupils, only the sounds in the 
words including them will be practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_130 =====
130
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations
The concept of “house” is present in all languages because people live in different types of houses in 
different parts of the world. People who start to learn a new language bring with them their pre-existing 
knowledge and transfer it to their new language learning. Therefore, Year 2 Primary school pupils will know 
what a house is as a concept but will not know its equivalents in another language. However, this existing 
knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn it more easily in a foreign 
language, English in this case.
Principles
Houses and homes are presented as spaces with specific parts, rooms, furniture, and pets that play 
significant roles in shaping daily routines and comfort. Neighbourhoods add an external layer of social 
interaction and shared community life.
Houses serve as essential contexts for practising basic social communication in EFL, such as identifying 
rooms, describing furniture, and talking about pets. Pupils engage in authentic and natural interactions by 
describing their homes and pets, asking questions about others’ living spaces, and sharing details about 
their neighbourhoods.
Key Concepts:
Parts, rooms, furniture, pets, house, parts in the house, rooms in the house, furniture in the house, pets in 
the house.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Pupils make self-recordings (visual, audio) at school/ at home of their house, 
their rooms, the furniture in their houses, and their pets by presenting the models that they can make by 
cardboard or Web 2.0 programmes. This performance will be evaluated using rubrics.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of homes & houses & neighbourhoods with its components 
such as a house and its parts, rooms, and furniture in it in their own language. As the pupils are 7 years old, 
they can know what a house is and what we have in it. They are also expected to know that pets are animals 
that live with families in houses. Besides, they know how to describe the location of furniture, people, and 
pets (if there are any) in a house in their own language, Turkish. This knowledge would prepare them to 
identify the same concepts in their foreign language, English as well. It is assumed that as they have learnt 
how to ask what things/people are and how to introduce them using language chunks such as “What’s/is it/
this? This is a …”; “What colour…? It’s/is blue” in English from the previous themes. These chunks can be used 
as a basis for learning the new language chunks in the current theme making the new chunks easier to learn.  
In the classroom, a fun warm-up activity which is not related to the theme “home & houses & neighbourhood” 
can be conducted as an ice-breaking session to help learners be ready for the whole learning process in 
the class with positive feelings for their well-being. This can be an activity such as a short game, a physical 
activity, listening to a song/chant/rhyme and so on which will not require any English knowledge and also 
there will not be a need to speak Turkish.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that pupils’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about a house and the rooms, furniture and pets that live in it as well as their numbers, locations and 
very simple descriptions.  Recalling and practising with basic colours (white, black etc…), simple adjectives 
(small, big etc…) and body parts (ears, noses etc…) in English which they have learnt in the previous themes 
would be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content about the concept of “house”. 
Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise colours, simple adjectives for physical descriptions 

===== PDF_PAGE_131 =====
131
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
(small, big, short, long), body parts (ears, nose, legs, eyes), and language chunks such as “What’s/is it? This 
is a…” “What colour is it? It’s/is blue”, and “I’ve/have got a … She’s/has got a …” (since they are going to learn 
“We’ve/have got…” in the current theme)” by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this 
way, their performance can be taken into consideration by seeing how much they remember and how much 
they are able to understand and use previously learnt vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the 
current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge 
and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme.
Establishing Links
Pupils are asked to recall the concept of “house” by remembering their pre-existing background knowledge 
about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with the current activities in 
the theme in English without translating anything until they start learning the target words in the current 
(new) concept, “house” in English.  To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already 
have about the concept of a house, a short cartoon or animated story that is well known to the, with very 
well-known characters from a well-known cartoon is shown on the blackboard/Smart Board before the main 
teaching/learning flow of the class begins. The cartoon shows a house with rooms inside. (To prepare the 
short cartoon or animated story, some Web 2.0 programmes can be used).
The pupils are asked to watch the cartoon, and they do.  When they have finished watching it, the teacher 
asks them in Turkish if they have understood what it is in the cartoon. She/He wants them to nod yes or to 
indicate whether they understood what it was about or not. The teacher asks them to think about it until 
they watch the next film, which is the main entry material of the theme, the digital story, without asking any 
further questions in Turkish or English. An example practice could be done to point correctly to a picture of a 
house and pictures of parts of the house in it correctly when they are given instructions by the teacher with 
English, Turkish and/or with mimics and gestures. Pupils give responses by pointing out relevant so-called 
pictures without speaking any English and/or Turkish.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about school (in their minds) in their 
own language and the present information about the concept of “house” through meaningful contextualised 
activities with visuals within the theme.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME FOR WELL-BEING
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive and 
ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as playing a 
short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, saying a tongue 
twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of 
English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_132 =====
132
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.5.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current 
theme during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “homes, houses and neighbourhoods” 
in their minds, so a further concept check would help them prepare for the current theme (D3.2, SELS1.1, 
V3.2, LS1, CS2.11, CS2.16.2). For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and show a card model 
of a school and sets of pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the pupils to point to 
the pictures in or on the model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context of the theme, 
the introductory digital story, that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.8) . For 
each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several 
times while going through the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language 
expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main context 
to the whole theme at the same time. (A 3-D model homes, houses and neighbourhoods can also be created 
using Web 2.0 programmes.) They can guess the sub-concepts of homes, houses and neighbourhoods, so 
they can easily understand that the current theme will be “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods” (D1.2, D1.6, 
D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V2.1, V2.3, V3.4, V8.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17).
ENG.2.5.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “homes, houses 
and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” as a whole, without 
stopping the video at any point, so that the pupils can understand the theme/topic holistically (D3.2, SELS1.1, 
V3.3, V5.2, V9.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.14, CS2.16.2).
ENG.2.5.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to 
the content about homes, houses, and neighbourhoods and its relevant components, some pictures are 
brought into the classroom by the teacher. The teacher brings a necessary number of large boxes for the 
pictures (some symbols are stuck on the boxes for homes, houses and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms 
and furniture in the house; pets in the house and puts the boxes on the table. She/He puts the corresponding 
picture into the related box when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the introductory digital 
story without stopping the video while the pupils watch the story (V3.3, V5.2, V9.3, LS1, LS5). When they 
have watched the whole story, the teacher shows the items in the boxes on the table and asks some simple 
display questions about it. In this way, the teacher could carry out a monologue and also engage in a dialogue 
with the whole class to check that they have recognised the theme as a whole through its components, 
which can be used to check their learning as described in item (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, V6.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). After watching 
the introductory digital story, the teacher takes all the pictures out of the boxes and puts them back on the 
table again and says the word “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods” several times aloud, and the pupils 
repeat after her/him. In this way, the main vocabulary of the theme “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods” 
is introduced to the pupils in English. To remember the sequence of the scenes with the parts, places, and 
people in the “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods” in the introductory digital story, the teacher shows the 
mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the pupils to look at the images/ pictures 
of these scenes for a while (CS2.3). She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs with the mixed paper 
pictures she has already given to the pupils (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2) . When the pairs have finished 
sorting the pictures for scenes of the story, the teacher asks the pupils to take turns or volunteer to order 
the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board (or the pictures on the blackboard (SELS1.2, V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, 
LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10). This will help the teacher organise the story as a whole so that the pupils can identify 
the main theme and the components of the theme through their memories (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, CS2.12).

===== PDF_PAGE_133 =====
133
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.5.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3).
ENG.2.5.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods 
with parts, rooms, and furniture in the house; pets in the house”, the teacher puts on the table the pictures 
and boxes that she/he has previously used. She/He holds up each picture and asks the pupils to repeat each 
word aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to the recordings she/he has prepared beforehand 
using some Web 2.0 programmes. She/He puts the picture in the correct box about the group corresponding 
to the word while repeating the words with the whole class (V3.4, V5.2, V9.3, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.16.3). 
The teacher could offer variations with some techniques, such as showing the picture of the target words 
about homes, houses and neighbourhoods to the pupils to say the word or pointing to the corresponding 
picture when they hear the word from the recording, and then both. To help the pupils pronounce the words 
accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/
him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers, using the 
shadow technique, in which pupils immediately repeat whatever the teacher is saying or the story, without 
pausing (D1.3, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V3.4, V7.1, LS2, CS2.14).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended with 
different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for the homes, houses, and 
neighbourhoods and its components, the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts 
them out, the pupils repeat after her/him (SELS2.1, CS2.6). Then the teacher and the pupils say the target 
words and act them out together at the same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts 
them out (V3.4, V4.2, V15.1, LS4). These “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods” related actions can be done 
through the actions which can be done in the school, but they are only used for acting without teaching them 
as verbs in English. For instance, they can pretend to do things according to the topic. As a variation, they 
can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, sadly, angrily etc. using different tones of voice through 
TPR techniques (SELS2.3, V11.1, V12.2, LS5, CS2.9). Then some groups of pupils say the words, some groups 
of pupils act them out. While doing the repetitions, they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has 
placed in different places in the classroom. Some action sequences are also created through which the 
pupils can practise the social language expressions of the theme in a fun way by repeating, pointing, and 
miming in several games. Several fun pronunciation games could be played where pupils whisper a target 
word into the ears of their peers forming a chain and the last person says it aloud and the class checks 
if the word is pronounced correctly or not (D2.5, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, V6.2, LS6, CS2.12).  Their 
learning is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of 
the English Curriculum.

===== PDF_PAGE_134 =====
134
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.5.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS : The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract 
from the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading 
sections of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are 
limited reading texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and 
speed reading are used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading 
for detail are used in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading, and post-reading phases are used 
in a simplified and age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend and 
help talk/write about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language and 
communicative competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3). For the initial stage of 
reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, 
scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory 
story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall 
the conceptual meanings they already have about the theme on “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods with 
parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” (V3.3, V5.2, V9.3, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.8). At this 
stage, the teacher could ask the pupils to read the title/heading of the content and ask the pupils which 
words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title by showing them a list of 
words and corresponding pictures to choose the ones they know (SELS1.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.16.2).  She/He 
reminds them not to ask for the meanings of new words or the words they do not know. She/He reminds 
them that this is only a recalling activity to check the words they know and that there will be time to work on 
the new words of the new theme later (D3.2, D3.6, V12.1, CS2.10, CS2.12).
ENG.2.5.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 
3-D house model of “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each item, 
the written form of the word is provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words first 
silently. The teacher then points to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole class. 
Then she/he invites volunteers to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of the 
class read them aloud as a chorus (D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG.2.5.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version 
of the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/Smart Board. She/ He 
asks the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14) . From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used 
to understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods with 
parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V5.2, V9.3, LS5). During this 
process pupils work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings (SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.6). 
This is evaluated as described in items (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum.

===== PDF_PAGE_135 =====
135
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.5.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: 
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1). The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3).
ENG.2.5.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.
ENG.2.5.V2.
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY:  To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to 
the theme “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the 
house”, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story again. A scanning activity to find 
out the main details of the introductory digital story (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to 
help pupils to know more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text 
could be about. The activity could be designed by listing some pictures for the vocabulary about the main 
components of the theme that take place in the story/text (V3.3, V3.4, V5.2, V9.3, LS5). Pupils circle or tick 
the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned (quickly read) in the story/text. In this way, they will be able 
to understand the story/text in general by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target 
vocabulary items (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then, from the beginning, whenever an item related to 
“homes, houses and neighbourhoods” is mentioned, the teacher stops the video and asks a question in the 
form of two options by showing their pictures (CS2.6). By guessing what they are based on the pictures, 
the scene, and the sound, pupils hear the English equivalents of the words for the homes, houses, and 
neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house, and they answer as a whole 
class. In this way, they are introduced to the meaning of the target words (D1.1, CS2.10). This is done in the 
form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (SELS2.1) (3) and (8) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.2, V5.2, V9.3, V14.1, LS1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.5.V3.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods”, the teacher prepares an activity using the Web 2.0 
program with images/pictures of components of “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods”. She/He prepares 
three boxes on one side of the screen and mixed images/ pictures for target vocabulary related to the “homes, 
houses, and neighbourhoods” on the other side. She/He asks the pupils to look at the mixed pile of images/
pictures on the Smart Board screen and scan them for a while to remember them (CS2.4). She/He asks 
the pupils to drag the objects about the components of the theme into the correct box on the screen. The 
boxes have the words for each component represented on them with symbolic pictures. The pupils are given 
the cut-out pictures and a large sheet of paper with the pictures of empty boxes. The teacher asks them 
to work in pairs and put the cut-out pictures in the right box and ask each other several display questions 
(CS2.5). When the pupils have finished working with the cut-outs and asking and answering questions about 
them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart Board and drag the corresponding 

===== PDF_PAGE_136 =====
136
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
images/pictures as the components of the theme “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods” to the correct 
empty boxes on the screen (SELS1.2, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the concept of 
the theme “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods” are consolidated through categorisation. The same activity 
can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. To practise the 
meanings of the target words about the school, the teacher places several pictures for them in the different 
parts of the classroom. She/He then puts some flashcards with the target vocabulary for “homes, houses, 
and neighbourhoods” on the blackboard/whiteboard. She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows it to the 
pupils. Pupils, working in pairs, look at the flashcard, decide which picture on the classroom walls is relevant, 
they go to the picture together, pin the flashcard to the noticeboard and say the word together first in pairs, 
and then as a whole class (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.5). To consolidate the meanings 
of the new vocabulary items for the concept of “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods”, the teacher could 
organise several activities in pairs and groups with pictures and flashcards such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s 
game, Odd One out, etc. (SELS2.2). These activities are closed and controlled so that pupils can practise 
the current (new) vocabulary about the current context in the beginning but later they work with simple 
and easy open-ended and communicative activities (D2.5, SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5).  This is evaluated as 
described in items (1), (2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum. The teacher asks the pupils to copy the words in their picture dictionaries and then asks 
them to exchange their picture dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling using the words 
written on the model school on the blackboard/Smart Board (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). 
This is evaluated as described in items (3) and (4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
ENG.2.5.G1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS:  To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target language 
chunks about the theme “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; 
pets in the house” (D3.2, V5.2, V9.3, LS5, CS2.2). While the pupils watch the introductory digital story, the 
teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by 
showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the pupils to do the same (CS2.14). She/He could hold up 
large pictures and ask the pupils questions about the pictures with the target chunks expecting the pupils 
to ask and answer by using the target chunks. To check the pupils’ identification of the target language 
chunks, the teacher shows some picture strips that she/he has prepared for this activity, using some Web 
2.0 programmes, after the pupils have watched the introductory digital story and imitated the actions and 
said the target language chunks. She/He asks the pupils to listen to her/him saying a target language chunk 
and then to look at the screen and say “Stop!” when they see a scene in the picture strips with the target 
chunk that the teacher has just said (SELS3.1, CS2.7). The teacher stops if the pupils are correct, but not if 
they are not (V3.3, V4.1, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.2.5.G2.
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in 
the house”, and writes the appropriate language chunks to be used with each of the groups. She/He also 
provides the vocabulary items on the Smart Board screen. The teacher wants the pupils to think for a while 
and talk with their peers about which target words can be used in which language chunk group (SELS2.2, 
V3.1, V5.2, V9.3, V10.3, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.4).  Then the pupils go to the board and move the words under 
the correct heading and say the complete sentence with the target words and the chunks. They are then 
asked to say a sentence with the target chunk aloud as a class. Each sentence is repeated after each pair. 
Their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum. The same game can be played with pictures on the blackboard if 

===== PDF_PAGE_137 =====
137
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
there are technological/technical problems (D2.5). To organise the pupils’ further practice to consolidate the 
target language chunks, the teacher could create some action sequences in context by repeating, saying, 
and acting out with different activity bundles where their learning can be checked as described in items (5), 
(8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (CS2.13). There 
is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Pupils can automatically, spontaneously, 
and naturally select and use the target language chunks in the current context (SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, 
LS5, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  For consolidation of the target language chunks, the teacher can facilitate 
more fun activities and games so that the pupils can practise and consolidate them (V4.4, V7.2).
ENG.2.5.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by using 
language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme which 
is about “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the 
house” as in other themes. Writing activities are arranged according to age and level so they are quite limited 
and are gradually expanded (V3.2, V3.4, V5.2, V9.3, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.5.W2.
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions with 
a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are asked 
to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they get used 
to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written language 
(D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). To further practise guided and copied writing, the teacher gives 
all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2) (of two, three, four etc.) 
and to write the names of the vocabulary items “homes, houses and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and 
furniture in the house; pets in the house” next to their drawings on the model related to homes, houses, 
and neighbourhoods. The teacher asks them to look at the Smart Board screen with the model related to 
homes, houses, and neighbourhoods that she/he has made earlier so that the pupils can easily copy the 
target words for the items as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum (V4.4, V5.2, V9.3, V7.3, LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.5.W3.
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form of a 
new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/writing 
(copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods” 
in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, practical, and 
appropriate to the pupils’ age and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.20).
ENG.2.5.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).

===== PDF_PAGE_138 =====
138
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.5.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods with 
parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” from simple to more expanded versions in their 
writing (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V4.2, V5.2, V9.3, V15.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20).  AI-based technologies can be 
used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce simple digital 
materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, V11.1, 
LS2, CS2.20). These activities can be evaluated as described in items (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.5.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing expression process and asks them to express their  
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15). Pupils express what they think and feel about them. 
Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, SELS2.2). 
The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative  
design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.2.5.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language  
including the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme about 
“homes, houses, and neighbourhoods with parts, rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” (V3.2, 
V4.2, V5.2, V9.3, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.5.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6). They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.
ENG.2.5.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo/picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).
ENG.2.5.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. To interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “homes, houses, and neighbourhoods with parts, 
rooms and furniture in the house; pets in the house” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V5.2, V9.3, V11.1, LS1, LS4, 
LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic 

===== PDF_PAGE_139 =====
139
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings for 
developing their oral skills (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V3.4, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).
ENG.2.5.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Pupils communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related 
to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can 
be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision. These new contents created 
are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level. 
Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used together with other 
further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, LS1). Pupils are encouraged to produce several 
spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, show and tell activities, acting out 
activities to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using 
the language including the target words, language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme 
“homes, houses, and neighbourhoods” and its components such as “parts, rooms and furniture in the house; 
pets in the house” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V5.2, V7.2, V9.3, LS4, CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies 
can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital 
materials and projects at school and at home through recordings (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, 
CS2.20). These are evaluated as described in items (7), (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use and practise by 
communicating with others.
ENG.2.5.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.15).  The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To consolidate and improve their knowledge and skills about the language for the vocabulary of a 
house, its parts and pets living in it in English. 
Activity 1: Acting out and guessing
A guessing-acting out game could be played. Pupils are paired up and take turns to act out the target words 
of the theme while their peers guess and describe the actions in detail. They repeat the words and chunks 
when they have finished guessing. A time limit for acting out and describing can be added to increase 
difficulty. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons. 
Activity 2: Pelmanism
The Pelmanism game could be made more challenging by using a larger set of flashcards with the vocabulary 
of the target theme and adding a time limit. Pupils can also create their own flashcards to include in the 
game. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons. 

===== PDF_PAGE_140 =====
140
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Activity 3: King’s game
They could play the King’s Game with more flashcards with additional details, and pupils can be asked 
to describe the missing cards. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using 
emoticons. 
Activity 4: Categorising
A list of categories or themes (e.g., different rooms in a house or pets) could be given by the teacher, but 
no specific words are provided. The vocabulary related to these themes/categories are selected by the 
pupils and written in their picture dictionaries. As well as drawing or finding pictures, the pupils should write 
relevant language chunks using the target words. For instance, for a target word such as “garden”, a target 
language chunk such as “The rabbit is in the garden” could be written. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and 
feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
Activity 5: Interactive Map
A digital tool could be used by pupils to create an interactive map of a house. Pupils write target language 
chunks about what they have learned from this theme are written by the pupils after they have completed 
their maps. They can then present their maps to the class. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings 
about the activity by using emoticons. 
Activity 6: Digital game
To make the learning processes of pupils more enjoyable for the pupils, various digital games can be played 
on a Web 2.0 for differentiated learning activities. Teachers can create this digital content themselves 
following the coursebook or use pre-existing digital content that is aligned with the coursebook. 
How to play the Word Soup Game on a Web 2.0 tool? 
Create a word pool: First, choose words related to the theme and appropriate for the pupils’ age and level. 
Write these words in a mixed order to create the word soup.
Prepare the game: Create a ‘Word Soup’ game via a Web 2.0 tool. Add the selected words to the game in a 
mixed order.
Set the rules: Explain to the pupils that they have to use the mixed words to form meaningful and correct 
language chunks that they have learnt in the theme. Give a specific number of points for each correct 
language chunk. The pupil or the group that forms the most correct sentences wins the game.
Play the game: Give the pupils a set amount of time. At the end of the time, check the sentences formed by 
each pupil or group. Give points for correct and meaningful sentences. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and 
feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
Supporting
Objective: To consolidate and improve their knowledge and skills about the language for the vocabulary of a 
house, its parts and pets living in it according to their own pace in English. 
Activity 1: Pelmanism
The Pelmanism game could be adapted by using a smaller set of flashcards with target vocabulary related to 
the house and including pictures to help with recognition. Pupils could work in pairs, with one turning over 
the cards and the other calling out the names, and the teacher could provide clues or gestures to help with 
recall. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons. 
Activity 2: King’s game
King’s Game could also be adapted with fewer flashcards to be used with extended viewing time. Pupils 
reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons. 
Activity 3: Picture dictionary
The teacher gives the pupils a list of target words and corresponding pictures. The pupils copy the words 
and paste or draw pictures next to each word in their picture dictionaries. A template with blank spaces for 
words and pictures is used to guide pupils on where to place each element. Pupils reflect on their thoughts 
and feelings about the activity by using emoticons. 
Activity 4: Digital game
Pupils use a digital tool with pre-defined house templates where the rooms are already outlined. Pupils drag 
and drop images associated with parts of the house into the correct places on the map. They can then 

===== PDF_PAGE_141 =====
141
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
present their maps to the class. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using 
emoticons.
Activity 5: Digital game
To make the learning process of pupils more enjoyable for the pupils, digital games are used for differentiated 
learning activities. Teachers can create this digital content themselves, following the coursebook, or use 
pre-existing digital content that matches the coursebook. They can play the matching game on a Web 2.0 
tool, where they have to match the item displayed on the screen with its English equivalent. Pupils reflect on 
their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_142 =====
142
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 6: LIFE IN THE CITY & THE WORLD
Sub-themes: Basic food types, items, and meals
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in the city and the world” and covers 
the sub-themes of “basic food types, items, and meals”. These components (sub-
themes) are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised 
use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and 
social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed 
to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within 
and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 11 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3.  Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity,  
D3.5. Open-Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V10. Modesty, V11. 
Independence, V12. Patience, V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V15. Love and 
Affection, V17. Thriftiness, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Life Study/ Science of Life, Visual Arts, Music, Physical 
Education and Games

===== PDF_PAGE_143 =====
143
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. 
Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, 
CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_144 =====
144
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 2 is structured based on holistic approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.2.6.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “life in the city and the world with basic food types, items, and meals”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures, and context.
ENG.2.6.L2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “life in the city and the world with 
basic food types, items, and meals” together with key details and main components while 
listening/watching it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.2.6.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “life in the city and 
the world with basic food types, items, and meals” through details by listening/watching it 
carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age- and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school. 
ENG.2.6.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “life in the 
city and the world with basic food types, items, and meals” in a very simple way.
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_145 =====
145
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.6.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about “life 
in the city and the world with basic food types, items, and meals” accurately, authentically, and 
naturally through spontaneous selection and using it in an appropriate and effective way when 
communicating with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups, and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously, and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.2.6.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“life in the city and the world with basic food types, items, and meals”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences, and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.2.6.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “life in the city and the world with 
basic food types, items, and meals” through skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-visual 
elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.2.6.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “life in the city 
and the world with basic food types, items, and meals” by reading it carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it 
in a simple and meaningful way.
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_146 =====
146
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.6.R4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “life in the city and the world with 
basic food types, items, and meals” for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both 
individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.2.6.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “life in the city and 
the world with basic food types, items, and meals” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, 
and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.2.6.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the current 
content about “life in the city and the world with basic food types, items, and meals” accurately, 
authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when 
communicating with others.
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically 
and by pointing.
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.

===== PDF_PAGE_147 =====
147
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.2.6.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “life in 
the city and the world with basic food types, items, and meals” in an age- and level-appropriate 
way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.2.6.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on “life in 
the city and the world with basic food types, items, and meals” based on the model/example 
provided to practise for further writing activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.2.6.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“life in the city and the world with basic food types, items, and meals” based on the model/
example provided.
a) Pupils organise a very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.2.6.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the 
current content “life in the city and the world with basic food types, items, and meals”.
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 
ENG.2.6.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks about 
the “life in the city and the world with basic food types, items, and meals” to communicate 
with other people.
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully, and individually reorganising it.
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.
ENG.2.6.W6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “life in the city and the world with basic food 
types, items, and meals” very simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both 
individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.

===== PDF_PAGE_148 =====
148
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.2.6.S1.  Pupils can get ready for the speaking-expression process about the current content on “life in 
the city and the world with basic food types, items, and meals” with the help of supplementary 
audio-visual materials.
a) Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and imitation after 
completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used during the 
initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current content.
ENG.2.6.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme 
on “life in the city and the world with basic food types, items, and meals”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.2.6.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “life in the city and the world with basic food 
types, items, and meals” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.
ENG.2.6.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “life in the city and the world with basic food 
types, items, and meals” through reconstruction by speaking accurately, efficiently, and 
authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.
ENG.2.6.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “life in the city and the 
world with basic food types, items, and meals” by reconstructing it to communicate with other 
people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate, and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.
b) Pupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_149 =====
149
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.6.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “life in the city and the world with basic food 
types, items, and meals” very simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both 
individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_150 =====
150
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN THE CITY & THE WORLD
Sub-themes: Basic food types, items, and meals
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Liquids: Water, milk, ayran, tea, coffee.
Fruits: Tomatoes, bananas, apples, oranges, pears, strawberries, grapes, cherries.
Vegetables: Potatoes, carrots, beans, peppers, lettuce, cucumbers, spinach, broccoli, garlic, cauliflower, 
courgette.
Basic food: Chicken, fish, bread, meat, eggs.
Quantifiers: Some (to be used naturally and automatically with all food items, without explaining its 
grammatical function, with language chunks “I’ve/have got some beans. She’s/has got some bread”.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Language Chunks in Use:
Structures will be introduced and used through language chunks rather than explicit rule teaching (no rules 
will be taught).
“The Simple Present Tense”:
Do you like bread? Yes, I do.
Do you like beans? No, I don’t.
Function: Telling preferences for food.
“There is/ There are” (with only countable nouns): 
(Is there a banana in the kitchen?) Yes, there is.  No, there isn’t). 
(Are there any bananas in the kitchen? Yes, there are. No there aren’t).
Function: Talking about the existence of food.
Can for possibility:  Can I have bread? Yes, you can. No, you can’t.
Function: Making polite requests.
Target Social Language in Use:
I’m hungry! 
I’m thirsty! 
Yummy!
It’s delicious! 
Time for breakfast/lunch/dinner!
Thanks for breakfast/lunch/dinner!
Enjoy your meal!
Let’s go and meet them!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Vowels: u
Consonants: w, x, y, z
Vowel: u: (/juː/, /ʌ/, /juː/)

===== PDF_PAGE_151 =====
151
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
w: (/w/); x: (/ɛks/, /ks/, /gz/); y: (/waɪ/, /j/, /ɪ/, /iː/); z: / (zed/ (Br), /ziː/ (AmE.), /z/)
*No pronunciation symbols will be provided in any material written for the pupils, only the sounds in the 
words including them will be practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations
The concept of “food” is present in all languages because it is one of the most basic human needs and all 
people in different parts of the world eat some kind of food. People who start to learn a new language bring 
with them their pre-existing knowledge and transfer it to their new language learning. So, Year 2 Primary 
school pupils will know what food means as a concept but will not know its equivalents in another language. 
However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn it 
more easily in a foreign language, English in this case.
Principles
Basic food items are presented as a topic where certain categories, items, and related actions function as 
important components.
Basic food items serve as an essential context where foundational social interactions of expressing 
preferences, asking for items, and making polite requests are practiced naturally and authentically in EFL.
Key Concepts:
Items, food, basic food, basic food items, food  types, meals.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Pupils work on self-recordings (visual, audio) at school/ at home presenting 
an interview with a classmate/friend/family member about their preferences for food with pictures and/or 
realia. The assignment is evaluated using rubrics.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of the food and preferences related to it in their own language. 
As the pupils are 7 years old, they can know what food is and what preferences for it mean. They are also 
expected to understand other people’s and their own preferences for food and to be able to express them 
in their own language. This knowledge would prepare them to identify the same concepts in their foreign 
language, English. as well. It is assumed that they will have learnt how to ask what things are and how to 
introduce them using language chunks such as “What’s/is it/this? This is a ….”; and also their colours “What 
colour…? It’s/is red” in English from the previous themes. These chunks can be used as a basis for learning 
the new language chunks in the current theme making the new chunks easier to learn. 
In the classroom, a fun warm-up activity which is not related to the theme “basic food items” can be 
conducted as an ice-breaking session to help learners be ready for the whole learning process in the class 
with positive feelings for their well-being. This can be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, 
listening to a song/chant/rhyme and so on which will not require any English knowledge and also there will 
not be a need to speak Turkish. 
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that pupils’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about the food as well as other people’s and their own food preferences. Recalling and practising 
with basic colours (white, black etc…) and simple adjectives (small, big etc…) in English that they have learnt 
in the previous themes would be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the 
concept of “food”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise colours, simple adjectives for physical 
descriptions (small, big, short, long), and language chunks such as “What’s/is it? This is a…” “What colour is 
it? It’s/is red”, and “I’ve/have got … She’s/has got …They’ve/have got …” With the vocabulary from the previous 

===== PDF_PAGE_152 =====
152
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
themes by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be 
evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to understand and use previously 
learnt vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to 
emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and 
chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics.)
Establishing Links
Pupils are asked to recall the concept of “food” by remembering their pre-existing background knowledge 
about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with the current activities in the 
theme in English without translating anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) 
concept, “food” in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the concept of “food”, a 
short animated scene can be prepared and shown (it can be a paper picture format if there are technological 
problems) on the blackboard/Smart Board before the main teaching/learning flow of the class begins. The 
animated scene shows a fridge with food inside (To prepare the animated page, some Web 2.0 programmes 
can be used). The pupils are asked to look at the animated page.  When they have finished looking at it, the 
teacher asks them in Turkish if they have understood what was on the page. She/He wants them to nod yes 
or to indicate whether they understood what it was about or not.
The teacher asks them to think about it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the digital entry story, without asking any further questions in Turkish or English.
An example practice could be done to point correctly to a picture of a basket and pictures of basic food 
types, items, and meals in it correctly when they are given instructions by the teacher with English, Turkish 
and/or with mimics and gestures. Pupils give responses by pointing out relevant so-called pictures without 
speaking any English and/or Turkish.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about school (in their minds) in their 
own language and the present information about the concept of “food” through meaningful contextualised 
activities with visuals within the theme.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME FOR WELL-BEING
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive and 
ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as playing a 
short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, saying a tongue 
twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of 
English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_153 =====
153
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.6.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current 
theme during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “life in the city and the world” in 
their minds, so a further concept check would help them prepare for the current theme (D3.2, SELS1.1, 
V3.2, LS1, CS2.11, CS2.16.2). For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and show a card model 
of a school and sets of pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the pupils to point to 
the pictures in or on the model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context of the theme, 
the introductory digital story, that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.8) . For 
each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several 
times while going through the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language 
expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main context 
to the whole theme at the same time. (A 3-D model of life in the city and the world can also be created using 
Web 2.0 programmes.) They can guess the sub-concepts of life in the city and the world, so they can easily 
understand that the current theme will be “life in the city and the world” (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, 
V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17).
ENG.2.6.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “life in the city 
and the world with basic food types, items and meals” as a whole, without stopping the video at any point, 
so that the pupils can understand the theme/topic holistically (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.3, V13.1, V14.3, V17.1, LS1, 
LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.14, CS2.16.2).
ENG.2.6.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to 
the content about life in the city and the world and its relevant components, some pictures are brought 
into the classroom by the teacher. The teacher brings a necessary number of large boxes for the pictures 
(some symbols are stuck on the boxes for life in the city and the world with basic food types, items and 
meals and puts the boxes on the table. She/He puts the corresponding picture into the related box when the 
corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the introductory digital story without stopping the video while 
the pupils watch the story (V3.3, V13.1, V14.3, V17.1, LS1, LS5)). When they have watched the whole story, 
the teacher shows the items in the boxes on the table and asks some simple display questions about it. 
In this way, the teacher could carry out a monologue and also engage in a dialogue with the whole class to 
check that they have recognised the theme as a whole through its components, which can be used to check 
their learning as described in item (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, V6.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8).  After watching the introductory digital story, 
the teacher takes all the pictures out of the boxes and puts them back on the table again and says the 
word “life in the city and the world” several times aloud, and the pupils repeat after her/him. In this way, 
the main vocabulary of the theme “life in the city and the world” is introduced to the pupils in English. To 
remember the sequence of the scenes with the parts, places, and people in the “life in the city and the 
world” in the introductory digital story, the teacher shows the mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the 
Smart Board and asks the pupils to look at the images/ pictures of these scenes for a while (CS2.3). She/
He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs with the mixed paper pictures she has already given to the 
pupils (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2). When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for scenes of the 
story, the teacher asks the pupils to take turns or volunteer to order the scenes on the screen of the Smart 
Board (or the pictures on the blackboard (SELS1.2, V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10). This will help the 
teacher organise the story as a whole so that the pupils can identify the main theme and the components of 
the theme through their memories (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, CS2.12).

===== PDF_PAGE_154 =====
154
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.6.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3).
ENG.2.6.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “life in the city and the world with basic 
food types, items and meals”, the teacher puts on the table the pictures and boxes that she/he has previously 
used. She/He holds up each picture and asks the pupils to repeat each word aloud a few times as a whole 
class after listening to the recordings she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes. 
She/He puts the picture in the correct box about the group corresponding to the word while repeating 
the words with the whole class (V3.4, V13.1, V14.3, V17.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer 
variations with some techniques, such as showing the picture of the target words about life in the city and 
the world to the pupils to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear the word 
from the recording, and then both. To help the pupils pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks 
them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in 
large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers, using the shadow technique, in which pupils 
immediately repeat whatever the teacher is saying or the story, without pausing (D1.3, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, 
V3.4, V7.1, LS2, CS2.14).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended with 
different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for the life in the city and the 
world and its components, the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts them out, the 
pupils repeat after her/him (SELS2.1, CS2.6). Then the teacher and the pupils say the target words and act 
them out together at the same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts them out (V3.4, 
V4.2, V15.1, LS4). These “life in the city and the world” related actions can be done through the actions which 
can be done in the school, but they are only used for acting without teaching them as verbs in English. For 
instance, they can pretend to do things according to the topic. As a variation, they can also repeat the words 
after the teacher happily, sadly, angrily etc. using different tones of voice through TPR techniques (SELS2.3, 
V11.1, V12.2, LS5, CS2.9).  Then some groups of pupils say the words, some groups of pupils act them out. 
While doing the repetitions, they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different places 
in the classroom. Some action sequences are also created through which the pupils can practise the social 
language expressions of the theme in a fun way by repeating, pointing, and miming in several games. Several 
fun pronunciation games could be played where pupils whisper a target word into the ears of their peers 
forming a chain and the last person says it aloud and the class checks if the word is pronounced correctly 
or not (D2.5, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, V6.2, LS6, CS2.12).  Their learning is evaluated as described in 
items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.6.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS : The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract 
from the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading 
sections of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are 
limited reading texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and 

===== PDF_PAGE_155 =====
155
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
speed reading are used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading 
for detail are used in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases are used 
in a simplified and age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend and 
help talk/write about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language and 
communicative competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3). For the initial stage of 
reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, 
scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory 
story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the 
conceptual meanings they already have about the theme on “life in the city and the world with basic food 
types, items and meals” (V3.3, V13.1, V14.3, V17.1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.8). At this stage, the teacher could 
ask the pupils to read the title/heading of the content and ask the pupils which words they already know, 
and which come to mind in connection with the title by showing them a list of words and corresponding 
pictures to choose the ones they know (SELS1.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask for 
the meanings of new words or the words they do not know. She/He reminds them that this is only a recalling 
activity to check the words they know and that there will be time to work on the new words of the new theme 
later (D3.2, D3.6, V12.1, CS2.10, CS2.12).
ENG.2.6.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 3-D 
house model of “life in the city and the world” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each item, the written 
form of the word is provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words first silently. The 
teacher then points to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole class. Then she/he 
invites volunteers to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of the class read them 
aloud as a chorus (D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG.2.6.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version 
of the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/Smart Board. She/ He 
asks the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14) . From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used 
to understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “life in the city and the world with basic 
food types, items and meals” (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V13.1, V14.3, V17.1, LS5).  During this process pupils work 
collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings (SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.6). This is evaluated 
as described in items (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.
ENG.2.6.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: 
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1). The 

===== PDF_PAGE_156 =====
156
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3).
ENG.2.6.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.
ENG.2.6.V2.
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to the 
theme “life in the city and the world with basic food types, items and meals”, the teacher asks the pupils to 
watch the introductory digital story again. A scanning activity to find out the main details of the introductory 
digital story (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help pupils to know more about the 
content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The activity could 
be designed by listing some pictures for the vocabulary about the main components of the theme that take 
place in the story/text (V3.3, V3.4, V13.1, V14.3, V17.1, LS5). Pupils circle or tick the ones that they have 
heard, seen and scanned (quickly read) in the story/text. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/
text in general by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items (D3.2, 
D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7).  Then, from the beginning, whenever an item related to “life in the city and the 
world” is mentioned, the teacher stops the video and asks a question in the form of two options by showing 
their pictures (CS2.6). By guessing what they are based on the pictures, the scene, and the sound, pupils 
hear the English equivalents of the words for the life in the city and the world with basic food types, items 
and meals, and they answer as a whole class. In this way, they are introduced to the meaning of the target 
words (D1.1, V13.1, V14.3, V17.1, LS5, CS2.10). This is done in the form of a dialogue where their learning can 
be checked as described in items (SELS2.1) (3) and (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of 
the English Curriculum (V4.2, V14.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.2.6.V3.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “life in the city and the world”, the teacher prepares an activity using the Web 2.0 program 
with images/pictures of components of “life in the city and the world”. She/He prepares three boxes on one 
side of the screen and mixed images/ pictures for target vocabulary related to the “life in the city and the 
world” on the other side. She/He asks the pupils to look at the mixed pile of images/pictures on the Smart 
Board screen and scan them for a while to remember them (CS2.4). She/He asks the pupils to drag the 
objects about the components of the theme into the correct box on the screen. The boxes have the words 
for each component represented on them with symbolic pictures. The pupils are given the cut-out pictures 
and a large sheet of paper with the pictures of empty boxes. The teacher asks them to work in pairs and put 
the cut-out pictures in the right box and ask each other several display questions (CS2.5). When the pupils 
have finished working with the cut-outs and asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks 
them to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures as the 
components of the theme “life in the city and the world” to the correct empty boxes on the screen (SELS1.2, 
CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the concept of the theme “life in the city and the 
world” are consolidated through categorisation. The same activity can be done with real pictures on the 
white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. To practise the meanings of the target words about 
the school, the teacher places several pictures for them in the different parts of the classroom. She/He 
then puts some flashcards with the target vocabulary for “life in the city and the world” on the blackboard/
whiteboard. She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows it to the pupils. Pupils, working in pairs, look at 
the flashcard, decide which picture on the classroom walls is relevant, they go to the picture together, pin 
the flashcard to the noticeboard and say the word together first in pairs, and then as a whole class (SELS2.1, 

===== PDF_PAGE_157 =====
157
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
SELS2.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.5). To consolidate the meanings of the new vocabulary items for the 
concept of “life in the city and the world”, the teacher could organise several activities in pairs and groups 
with pictures and flashcards such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, etc. (SELS2.2). These 
activities are closed and controlled so that pupils can practise the current (new) vocabulary about the 
current context in the beginning but later they work with simple and easy open-ended and communicative 
activities (D2.5, SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5). This is evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The teacher asks the pupils to 
copy the words in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling using the words written on the model school on the blackboard/
Smart Board (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). This is evaluated as described in items (3) and 
(4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.2.6.G1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS: To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language chunks 
of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target language chunks 
about the theme “life in the city and the world with basic food types, items, and meals” (D3.2, V13.1, V14.3, 
V17.1, LS5, CS2.2). While the pupils watch the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes 
where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by showing the scene, saying the 
chunk, and asking the pupils to do the same (CS2.14). She/He could hold up large pictures and ask the pupils 
questions about the pictures with the target chunks expecting the pupils to ask and answer by using the 
target chunks. To check the pupils’ identification of the target language chunks, the teacher shows some 
picture strips that she/he has prepared for this activity, using some Web 2.0 programmes, after the pupils 
have watched the introductory digital story and imitated the actions and said the target language chunks. 
She/He asks the pupils to listen to her/him saying a target language chunk and then to look at the screen 
and say “Stop!” when they see a scene in the picture strips with the target chunk that the teacher has just 
said (SELS3.1, CS2.7). The teacher stops if the pupils are correct, but not if they are not (V3.3, V4.1, V7.1, 
LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.2.6.G2.
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme “life in the city and the world with basic food types, items and meals”, and writes the appropriate 
language chunks to be used with each of the groups. She/He also provides the vocabulary items on the Smart 
Board screen. The teacher wants the pupils to think for a while and talk with their peers about which target 
words can be used in which language chunk group (SELS2.2, V3.1, V10.3, V13.1, V14.3, V17.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.4). Then the pupils go to the board and move the words under the correct heading and say the complete 
sentence with the target words and the chunks. They are then asked to say a sentence with the target chunk 
aloud as a class. Each sentence is repeated after each pair. Their learning can be checked as described 
in items (5), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The 
same game can be played with pictures on the blackboard if there are technological/technical problems 
(D2.5). To organise the pupils’ further practice to consolidate the target language chunks, the teacher 
could create some action sequences in context by repeating, saying, and acting out with different activity 
bundles where their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (CS2.13). There is no analysis or teaching of 
grammatical structures at this stage. Pupils can automatically, spontaneously, and naturally select and use 
the target language chunks in the current context (SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, LS5, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2). 
For consolidation of the target language chunks, the teacher can facilitate more fun activities and games so 
that the pupils can practise and consolidate them (V4.4, V7.2).

===== PDF_PAGE_158 =====
158
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.6.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by using 
language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme which 
is about “life in the city and the world with basic food types, items and meals” as in other themes. Writing 
activities are arranged according to age and level so they are quite limited and are gradually expanded (V3.2, 
V3.4, V13.1, V14.3, V17.1, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.6.W2.
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions with 
a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are asked 
to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they get used 
to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written language 
(D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). To further practise guided and copied writing, the teacher gives 
all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2) (of two, three, four etc.) 
and to write the names of the vocabulary items “life in the city and the world with basic food types, items and 
meals” next to their drawings on the model related to life in the city and the world. The teacher asks them to 
look at the Smart Board screen with the model related to life in the city and the world that she/he has made 
earlier so that the pupils can easily copy the target words for the items as described in item (3) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.4, V7.3, V13.1, V14.3, V17.1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.6.W3.
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form of a 
new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/writing 
(copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “life in the city and the world” in fun, 
enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, practical, and appropriate 
to the pupils’ age and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.20).
ENG.2.6.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.2.6.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme “life in the city and the world with basic food types, 
items and meals” from simple to more expanded versions in their writing (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V4.2, V13.1, 
V14.3, V15.1, V17.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20).  AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving 
pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce simple digital materials and projects at school 
and at home in a variety of ways (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20). These activities can 
be evaluated as described in items (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum.

===== PDF_PAGE_159 =====
159
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.2.6.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing expression process and asks them to express their  
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15).  Pupils express what they think and feel about 
them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, 
SELS2.2). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and  
collaborative design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.2.6.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme about “life in 
the city and the world with basic food types, items and meals” (V3.2, V4.2, V13.1, V14.3, V17.1, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.2.6.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6). They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.
ENG.2.6.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo/picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).
ENG.2.6.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. To interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “life in the city and the world with basic food 
types, items and meals” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V11.1, V13.1, V14.3, V17.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based 
technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also 
produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings for developing their oral 
skills (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V3.4, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).
ENG.2.6.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Pupils communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related 
to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can 
be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision. These new contents created 
are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level. 
Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used together with other 
further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, LS1) . Pupils are encouraged to produce 
several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, show and tell activities, 
acting out activities to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people in or outside the school 

===== PDF_PAGE_160 =====
160
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
by using the language including the target words, language grammar in use, and the social language for 
the theme “life in the city and the world” and its components such as “basic food types, items, and meals” 
(SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V7.2, V13.1, V14.3, V17.1, LS4, LS5, CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can 
be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital 
materials and projects at school and at home through recordings (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, 
CS2.20). These are evaluated as described in items (7), (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use and practise by 
communicating with others.
ENG.2.6.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.15).  The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To form a creative menu in English by using target vocabulary. 
Activity 1: Creating a menu
Pupils work in pairs or small groups to create a menu for an imaginative restaurant. Different food items 
and drinks are written down, using the vocabulary and language chunks that have been learnt. The menus 
are then presented to the class.  Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using 
emoticons. 
Activity 2: Foodie Adventure Game
The teacher creates a large poster or a printable game board with a winding path. Food cards with pictures 
and names (water, milk, bread, chicken, fish, eggs, tomatoes, bananas, apples, potatoes, carrots, beans) 
and preference cards with language chunks like “Do you like [food item]?” and “Yes, I do.” / “No, I don’t.” are 
provided. The game board is designed with a start and finish, and a winding path with spaces is drawn by 
the teacher. Food cards and preference cards are placed in separate piles. Spaces on the board are marked 
where players must draw a card from the food or preference pile. Players take turns rolling the cube and 
moving their token along the path. If they land on a space with a food symbol, they draw a food card, and 
use the vocabulary in a sentence, e.g., “I’ve got some beans”. When landing on a space with a preference 
symbol, a preference card is drawn, and the question is answered, e.g., “Do you like chicken?” with “Yes, I do” 
or “No, I don’t”. Social language expressions like “I’m hungry!” or “It’s delicious!” are used when a card with 
these language chunks are drawn.  Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using 
emoticons. 
Activity 3: Drama – Role Play
A market stall is set up by pupils. Pupils work in pairs. One pupil from the expansion group can be the seller 
and the other pupils can be the customer. They can have a dialogue like the one given below.
CUSTOMER: Hello!
SELLER: Hi, welcome!
CUSTOMER: What is your name?

===== PDF_PAGE_161 =====
161
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
SELLER: My name is ……
CUSTOMER: I am ……. I am thirsty.
SELLER: Milk? Do you like milk?
CUSTOMER: No, I don’t like milk.
SELLER: Do you like water?
CUSTOMER: Yes, I like water.
SELLER: Here you are!
CUSTOMER: Thank you!
SELLER: Do you like apples?
CUSTOMER: Red apples?
SELLER: No, green apples.
CUSTOMER: No! I don’t like green apples.
Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons. 
Activity 4: Introducing yourself
Pupils are asked to prepare a video. In this video, one of the animals they have previously learnt about will be 
the main character. They can use a toy or a picture of the animal they have chosen. They can introduce the 
animal by animating it (to introduce itself) talking about its colour and body parts. Immediately afterward, 
they should also show and introduce food/drink in the video and say whether the animal likes them or not.  
Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
Supporting
Objective: To help pupils talk about food, basic food items, and their preferences for food in English by using 
target vocabulary.
Activity 1: Foodie Adventure Game
The game board is simplified with fewer spaces and the focus is placed on basic language use. Turns are 
made by rolling the cube and moving tokens along the path. If they land on a space with a food symbol, a food 
item card is drawn, and the vocabulary is used in a simple sentence, e.g., “I’ve got some milk”. When landing 
on a space with a preference symbol, a preference card is drawn, and the question is answered with a simple 
response, e.g., “Do you like chicken?” with “Yes, I do” or “No, I don’t”. Social language expressions such as 
“Yummy!” or “I’m thirsty!” are used when prompted by the cards.  Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings 
about the activity by using emoticons. 
Activity 2: Matching
Pupils are told that there will be an activity related to the food they learnt in the theme and they are asked to 
bring food or drink (milk etc.) from home that matches the words they have learnt. A table is placed in front 
of the board. Each pupil stands up and introduces the food/drink they have brought and says whether they 
like it or not. Then they put the food or drink on the table. At the end of the activity, a market stall will have 
been created. 
e.g.: This is a banana. I like bananas.
Low achievers (pupils) can make a video where they show foods/drinks and say whether they like it or not.  
Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE.   

===== PDF_PAGE_162 =====
162
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
PRIMARY-YEAR 3 
(LEVEL: A1.2)
THEME 1: SCHOOL LIFE
Sub-themes: Greetings and introductions at school, 
people and places at school, months of the year, 
ages and birthday celebrations; national days and 
celebrations
This theme is centred on the concept of “school life” and covers the sub-themes 
of “greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, months of 
the year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations”. These 
components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning process through the 
contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological 
features, and social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities 
are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are 
tailored to align with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and 
preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the 
knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively use English in their 
daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3.  Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity,  
D3.5. Open-Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill 

===== PDF_PAGE_163 =====
163
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V10. Modesty, V11. 
Independence, V12. Patience, V14. Respect, V15. Love and Affection, V18. 
Cleanliness, V19. Patriotism, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy,
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Life Study/ Science of Life, Visual Arts, Music, Physical 
Education and Games
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. 
Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, 
CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis 
Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_164 =====
164
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 3 is structured based on holistic approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.3.1.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current content 
on “school life with greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, months 
of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures and context.
ENG.3.1.L2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “school life with greetings and 
introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages and birthday 
celebrations; national days and celebrations” together with key details and main components 
while listening/watching it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.3.1.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “school life with 
greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, 
ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations” through details by listening/
watching it carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age- and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school. 
ENG.3.1.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “school life 
with greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, 
ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations” in a very simple way.
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_165 =====
165
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.1.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about “school 
life with greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the 
year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations” accurately, authentically, 
and naturally through spontaneous selection and using it in an appropriate and effective way 
when communicating with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.3.1.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“school life with greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, months of 
the year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.3.1.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “school life with greetings and 
introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages and birthday 
celebrations; national days and celebrations” through skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-
visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.3.1.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “school life with 
greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages 
and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations” by reading it carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it 
in a simple and meaningful way.
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.

===== PDF_PAGE_166 =====
166
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.
ENG.3.1.R4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “school life with greetings and 
introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages and birthday 
celebrations; national days and celebrations” for reflection in relation to themselves or others, 
both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.3.1.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “school life 
with greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, 
ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations” accurately, authentically, 
spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating 
with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.3.1.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the current 
content about “school life with greetings and introductions at school, people and places at 
school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations” 
accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively 
when communicating with others.
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.

===== PDF_PAGE_167 =====
167
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically 
and by pointing.
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.3.1.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “school 
life with greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the 
year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations” in an age- and level-
appropriate way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.3.1.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on “school 
life with greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the 
year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations” based on the model/
example provided to practise for further writing activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.3.1.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“school life with greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, months 
of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations” based on the 
model/example provided.
a) Pupils organise a very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.3.1.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the 
current content “school life with greetings and introductions at school, people and places at 
school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations”.
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 
ENG.3.1.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks about 
the “school life with greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, 
months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations” to 
communicate with other people.

===== PDF_PAGE_168 =====
168
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully and individually reorganising it.
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.
ENG.3.1.W6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “school life with greetings and introductions 
at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; 
national days and celebrations” very simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, 
both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.3.1.S1.  Pupils can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “school life 
with greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, 
ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations” with the help of supplementary 
audio-visual materials.
a) Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and imitation after 
completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used during the 
initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current content.
ENG.3.1.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme 
on “school life with greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, months 
of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.3.1.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “school life with greetings and introductions 
at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; 
national days and celebrations” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.
ENG.3.1.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “school life with greetings and introductions 
at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; 
national days and celebrations” through reconstruction by speaking accurately, efficiently, 
and authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).

===== PDF_PAGE_169 =====
169
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.
ENG.3.1.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “school life with 
greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages 
and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations” by reconstructing it to communicate 
with other people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.
b) Pupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.
ENG.3.1.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “school life with greetings and introductions 
at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; 
national days and celebrations” very simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, 
both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_170 =====
170
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
SCHOOL LIFE
Sub-themes: greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; months of the year; ages 
and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations
-Greetings: 
How are you? I’m good, thanks!
Good evening!
Good afternoon!
Good night!
Whose birthday is in October?
Do you need help?
Why not?
What’s the matter?
Be careful!
Who wants to tell me…?
Maybe!
I have an idea!
Let’s talk about…..
It sounds great!
You must be quiet!
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
-People at school: A classmate, a librarian, a school nurse, a headteacher, a caretaker.
-Places at school: An art room, a music room, a meeting room, an office, a sports field, a corridor, a gym.
-Birthday celebrations: Birthday, a birthday party, a candle, a cake, a balloon, a gift, summer holiday, a 
surprise.
Months of the year: January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, 
December.
Verbs: To prepare, to decorate, to bring, to play the guitar, write a song, to ask, to find, to run, to help. 
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations:  “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Language Chunks in Use: 
(“To be-present”) (am, is, are): (+), (-), (?)
Who’s/is this/she/he? This is Mr. Blue.
Where is Daphne? She’s/is in the library.
What month is it now? It’s/is September.
How old are you? I’m 8 years old.
When’s/is your birthday? It’s/is in July.
Function: Telling who people are, where people and things are, what month it is.
-There is / There are (+), (-), (?)(Only countable nouns with numbers will be used).
Is there a nurse at school? Yes, there is a nurse at school.

===== PDF_PAGE_171 =====
171
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
How many caretakers (are there at school)? (There are) two caretakers (at school). 
Function: Describing the presence and quantity of countable nouns.
-Must/ mustn’t (for obligation): (+), (-), (?)
You must follow the rules at school. You mustn’t run in the corridor/at school.
Function: Expressing obligations and prohibitions clearly.
-Personal Pronouns: I, you, we, they, he, she, it 
Function: Referring to the speaker as the subject.
-Prepositions: in, on, at
Function: Describing locations, time, and positions.
-WH-question words: what, where, who, when
Function: Asking what a thing is, where a place is, who a person is, when a time is.
-Question words: how
Function: Asking how a thing is.
-Demonstrative pronouns: this, that
Function: “this”: Referring to something specific that is close to the speaker in space, time, or context; and 
“that”: referring to something specific that is farther away in space, time, or context from the speaker.
Target Social Language in Use:
See you later!
Have a nice/good day!
Have a nice/good weekend! 
It’s great/nice/good to see you.
Take care!
Cool!
Happy Birthday!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
a, b
Vowel a:
a:  (/ae/, /aeı/, /ə/, /a:/, /eɪ/, /a:/, /a/,  /ɔː/, /eə/)
Consonant: b
b: (/b/)
*No pronunciation symbols will be provided in any material written for the pupils, only the sounds in the 
words including them will be practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations 
The concept of “school life” is present in almost all languages because it is one of the most basic parts of 
human beings’ lives and all children in different parts of the world go to different types of schools. People 
who start to learn a new language bring with them their previous/pre-existing knowledge and transfer it to 
their new language learning. So, a primary school pupil in year 3 will know what “a school and school life” 
mean as a concept but will not know its equivalents in another language if it has not been covered in their 
existing foreign language curriculum . However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them 
recognise, understand, and learn it more easily in a foreign language, English in this case.
Principles
School is presented as a place where people, places, and activities function as key components.
School is an important context where initial social interactions, such as greetings,introductions, and 
celebrations, are naturally and authentically practiced in EFL.
Key Concepts:
Greetings, introductions, people, places, greetings at school, introductions at school, people at school, 
places at school, months, year, months of the year, ages, birthdays, ages and birthdays, national days, 
celebrations, national days and celebrations.

===== PDF_PAGE_172 =====
172
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT:  Pupils write and design “a diary page” writing about people they meet, 
places they go and routines they have at school by using photos they take and pictures they draw. They 
will present it to the class and ask the other pupils to guess who the people and places they will present in 
their diary/journal page. The class will make guesses about them and their guesses will be checked after 
the presentations. The class will rate the presentations through the rating scales or checklists given by the 
teacher.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of the “school life” with its components such as “greetings and 
introductions at school; people and places at school; months of the year; ages and birthday celebrations; 
national days and celebrations” in their own language. As the pupils are 8-year-old primary school children, 
they can know what “greetings and introductions at school; people and places at school; months of the year; 
ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations” mean in their own language and to be able to 
express them in their own language. However, they would not know them in a foreign language, in this case 
English, if they were not covered in their existing school curriculum. This knowledge in their own language 
would prepare them to identify the same concepts in their foreign language, English, without speaking any 
Turkish. It is assumed that they have learnt how to ask what things are and how to introduce them using 
language chunks such as “What’s/is it/this? This is a ….”; “Who is this/…? This is Mr Jackson” in English from 
the previous themes and/or year. These chunks can be used as a basis for learning the new language chunks 
in the current theme making the new chunks easier to learn. This can be an activity such as a short game, a 
physical activity, listening to a song/chant/rhyme and so on which will not require any English knowledge and 
also there will not be a need to speak Turkish.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that pupils’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about “school life” as a concept in English. Some previous themes from previous years would 
be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “greetings and 
introductions at school; people and places at school; months of the year; ages and birthday celebrations; 
national days and celebrations”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise “school life with greetings, 
people and places” they learnt before. Some language chunks such as “What’s/is it? This is a…” “Who’s this? 
This is Mrs. Willis” are also revised by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, 
their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to 
understand and use previously learnt vocabulary and language chunks to build their competence in the 
current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge 
and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated 
by rubrics and/or checklists.)
Establishing Links
Pupils are asked to recall the current (theme) concept of “school life” and its components such as “greetings 
and introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; 
national days and celebrations”, by remembering their previous/pre-existing background knowledge about it 
(imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with the current activities in the theme 
in English without translating anything until they start learning the target words in the current concept in 
English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept 
various visual materials such as a short digital cartoon, a picture, a poster can be prepared and shown (it 
can be a paper picture format if there are technological problems) before the main teaching/learning flow of 

===== PDF_PAGE_173 =====
173
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
the lesson begins. The pupils are facilitated through the materials they have learnt the concept of it in the 
previous years with various activities. Then they are asked in simple English what was it about. They get help 
from the teacher to be able remember and say. For example the teacher could show the pictures with the 
words next to them so that pupils can remember some vocabulary and language chunks from the previous 
years. The teacher asks them to wait until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the introductory digital story, without asking any further questions.
One of the example practices could be to point correctly to a picture of the current concept in it when they 
are given instructions by the teacher in simple English.  Pupils give responses by pointing out relevant so-
called pictures without speaking any Turkish but only in very simple English or with mimics and gestures.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about the current theme (in their minds) 
in their own language and the present information about the concept through meaningful contextualised 
activities with visuals within the theme.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME FOR WELL-BEING
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive and 
ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as playing a 
short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, saying a tongue 
twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of 
English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG.3.1.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current 
theme during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “school life” in their minds, so a 
further concept check would help them prepare for the current theme (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, CS2.11, 
CS2.16.2). For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and show a card model of a school and 
sets of pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the pupils to point to the pictures in or 
on the model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context of the theme, the introductory 
digital story, that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.8). For each theme, a digitally 
constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through 
the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic 
meaning of the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the 
same time. (A 3-D model of school life can also be created using Web 2.0 programmes.) They can guess the 
sub-concepts of school life, so they can easily understand that the current theme will be “school life” (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17).

===== PDF_PAGE_174 =====
174
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.1.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “school life with 
(extended) greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages and 
birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations” as a whole, without stopping the video at any point, 
so that the pupils can understand the theme/topic holistically (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.3, V4.2, V14.1 14.3, V15.5, 
V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.14, CS2.16.2).
ENG.3.1.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to 
the content about school life and its relevant components, some pictures are brought into the classroom 
by the teacher. The teacher brings a necessary number of large boxes for the pictures (some symbols are 
stuck on the boxes for school life with (extended) greetings and introductions at school, people and places 
at school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations) and puts the 
boxes on the table. She/He puts the corresponding picture into the related box when the corresponding 
vocabulary is mentioned in the introductory digital story without stopping the video while the pupils watch 
the story (V3.3, V4.2, V14.1 14.3, V15.5, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS5). When they have watched the whole 
story, the teacher shows the items in the boxes on the table and asks some simple display questions about 
it. In this way, the teacher could carry out a monologue and also engage in a dialogue with the whole class to 
check that they have recognised the theme as a whole through its components, which can be used to check 
their learning as described in item (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, V6.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8).  After watching the introductory digital story, 
the teacher takes all the pictures out of the boxes and puts them back on the table again and says the word 
“school life” several times aloud, and the pupils repeat after her/him. In this way, the main vocabulary of the 
theme “school life” is introduced to the pupils in English. To remember the sequence of the scenes with the 
parts, places, and people in the “school life” in the introductory digital story, the teacher shows the mixed 
images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the pupils to look at the images/ pictures of 
these scenes for a while (CS2.3). She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs with the mixed paper 
pictures she has already given to the pupils (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2) . When the pairs have finished 
sorting the pictures for scenes of the story, the teacher asks the pupils to take turns or volunteer to order 
the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board (or the pictures on the blackboard (SELS1.2, V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, 
LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10). This will help the teacher organise the story as a whole so that the pupils can identify 
the main theme and the components of the theme through their memories (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, CS2.12).
ENG.3.1.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3).
ENG.3.1.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “school life with (extended) greetings 
and introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; 
national days and celebrations”, the teacher puts on the table the pictures and boxes that she/he has 
previously used. She/He holds up each picture and asks the pupils to repeat each word aloud a few times 
as a whole class after listening to the recordings she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 

===== PDF_PAGE_175 =====
175
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
programmes. She/He puts the picture in the correct box about the group corresponding to the word while 
repeating the words with the whole class (V3.4, V4.2, V14.1 14.3, V15.5, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer variations with some techniques, such as showing the picture of the target 
words about school to the pupils to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear 
the word from the recording, and then both. To help the pupils pronounce the words accurately, the teacher 
asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, 
then in large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers, using the shadow technique, in 
which pupils immediately repeat whatever the teacher is saying or the story, without pausing (D1.3, SELS1.2, 
SELS2.1, V3.4, V7.1, LS2, CS2.14).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended 
with different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for the school and its 
components, the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts them out, the pupils repeat 
after her/him (SELS2.1, CS2.6). Then the teacher and the pupils say the target words and act them out 
together at the same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts them out (V3.4, V4.2, V15.1, 
LS4). These “school life”-related actions can be done through the actions which can be done in the school, 
but they are only used for acting without teaching them as verbs in English. For instance, they can pretend 
to do things according to the topic. As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, 
sadly, angrily etc. using different tones of voice through TPR techniques (SELS2.3, V11.1, V12.2, LS5, CS2.9). 
Then some groups of pupils say the words, some groups of pupils act them out. While doing the repetitions, 
they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom. Some action 
sequences are also created through which the pupils can practise the social language expressions of the 
theme in a fun way by repeating, pointing, and miming in several games. Several fun pronunciation games 
could be played where pupils whisper a target word into the ears of their peers forming a chain and the 
last person says it aloud and the class checks if the word is pronounced correctly or not (D2.5, SELS2.1, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, V6.2, LS6, CS2.12).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG. 3.1.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS : The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract 
from the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading 
sections of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are 
limited reading texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and 
speed reading are used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading 
for detail are used in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases are used 
in a simplified and age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend and 
help talk/write about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language and 
communicative competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3). For the initial stage of 
reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, 
scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory 
story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall 
the conceptual meanings they already have about the theme on “school life with (extended) greetings and 
introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; 
national days and celebrations” (V3.3, V4.2, V14.1, V14.3, V15.5, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.8). 
At this stage, the teacher could ask the pupils to read the title/heading of the content and ask the pupils 
which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title by showing them a list 
of words and corresponding pictures to choose the ones they know (SELS1.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.16.2). She/He 
reminds them not to ask for the meanings of new words or the words they do not know. She/He reminds 

===== PDF_PAGE_176 =====
176
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
them that this is only a recalling activity to check the words they know and that there will be time to work on 
the new words of the new theme later (D3.2, D3.6, V12.1, CS2.10, CS2.12).
ENG.3.1.6.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 3-D 
house model of “school life” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each item, the written form of the word is 
provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words first silently. The teacher then points 
to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole class. Then she/he invites volunteers 
to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of the class read them aloud as a chorus 
(D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG.3.1.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version 
of the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/Smart Board. She/ He 
asks the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14) . From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used 
to understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “school life with (extended) greetings and 
introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; 
national days and celebrations” (SELS3.1, SELS3.2).  During this process pupils work collaboratively to 
exchange information, thoughts, and feelings (SELS2.2, V4.2, V14.1 14.3, V15.5, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS5, 
CS2.6). This is evaluated as described in items (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.3.1.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: 
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1). The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3).
ENG.3.1.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_177 =====
177
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.1.V2.
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to the 
theme “school life with (extended) greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, months 
of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations”, the teacher asks the pupils to 
watch the introductory digital story again. A scanning activity to find out the main details of the introductory 
digital story (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help pupils to know more about the 
content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The activity could 
be designed by listing some pictures for the vocabulary about the main components of the theme that take 
place in the story/text (V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, V14.1 14.3, V15.5, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS5). Pupils circle or tick the 
ones that they have heard, seen and scanned (quickly read) in the story/text. In this way, they will be able 
to understand the story/text in general by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target 
vocabulary items (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7).  Then, from the beginning, whenever an item related 
to “school life” is mentioned, the teacher stops the video and asks a question in the form of two options by 
showing their pictures (CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what they are based on the pictures, the scene, and 
the sound, pupils hear the English equivalents of the words for the school life with (extended) greetings and 
introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; 
national days and celebrations, and they answer as a whole class. In this way, they are introduced to the 
meaning of the target words (D1.1, V4.2, V14.1, 14.3, V15.5, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS5, CS2.10). This is done in 
the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (SELS2.1) (3) and (8) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.2, V14.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.3.1.V3.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “school”, the teacher prepares an activity using the Web 2.0 program with images/pictures 
of components of “school life”. She/He prepares three boxes on one side of the screen and mixed images/ 
pictures for target vocabulary related to the “school life” on the other side. She/He asks the pupils to look at 
the mixed pile of images/pictures on the Smart Board screen and scan them for a while to remember them 
(CS2.4). She/He asks the pupils to drag the objects about the components of the theme into the correct 
box on the screen. The boxes have the words for each component represented on them with symbolic 
pictures. The pupils are given the cut-out pictures and a large sheet of paper with the pictures of empty 
boxes. The teacher asks them to work in pairs and put the cut-out pictures in the right box and ask each 
other several display questions (CS2.5). When the pupils have finished working with the cut-outs and asking 
and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart 
Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures as the components of the theme “school” to the correct 
empty boxes on the screen (SELS1.2, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the concept 
of the theme “school life” are consolidated through categorisation. The same activity can be done with real 
pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. To practise the meanings of the 
target words about the school, the teacher places several pictures for them in the different parts of the 
classroom. She/He then puts some flashcards with the target vocabulary for “school life” on the blackboard/
whiteboard. She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows it to the pupils. Pupils, working in pairs, look at 
the flashcard, decide which picture on the classroom walls is relevant, they go to the picture together, pin 
the flashcard to the noticeboard and say the word together first in pairs, and then as a whole class (SELS2.1, 
SELS2.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.5). To consolidate the meanings of the new vocabulary items for 
the concept of “school”, the teacher could organise several activities in pairs and groups with pictures 
and flashcards such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, etc. (SELS2.2). These activities are 
closed and controlled so that pupils can practise the current (new) vocabulary about the current context 
in the beginning but later they work with simple and easy open-ended and communicative activities (D2.5, 
SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5). This is evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The teacher asks the pupils to copy the words 
in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with their peers and 

===== PDF_PAGE_178 =====
178
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
check each other’s spelling using the words written on the model school on the blackboard/Smart Board 
(SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4).  This is evaluated as described in items (3) and (4) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.3.1.G1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS:  To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target language 
chunks about the theme “school life with (extended) greetings and introductions at school, people and 
places at school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations” (D3.2, 
V4.2, V14.1 14.3, V15.5, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS5, CS2.2). While the pupils watch the introductory digital story, 
the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by 
showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the pupils to do the same (CS2.14). She/He could hold up 
large pictures and ask the pupils questions about the pictures with the target chunks expecting the pupils 
to ask and answer by using the target chunks. To check the pupils’ identification of the target language 
chunks, the teacher shows some picture strips that she/he has prepared for this activity, using some Web 
2.0 programmes, after the pupils have watched the introductory digital story and imitated the actions and 
said the target language chunks. She/He asks the pupils to listen to her/him saying a target language chunk 
and then to look at the screen and say “Stop!” when they see a scene in the picture strips with the target 
chunk that the teacher has just said (SELS3.1, CS2.7). The teacher stops if the pupils are correct, but not if 
they are not (V3.3, V4.1, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.3.1.G2.
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme “school life with (extended) greetings and introductions at school, people and places at 
school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations”, and writes 
the appropriate language chunks to be used with each of the groups. She/He also provides the vocabulary 
items on the Smart Board screen. The teacher wants the pupils to think for a while and talk with their peers 
about which target words can be used in which language chunk group (SELS2.2, V3.1, V4.2, V10.3, V14.1 
14.3, V15.5, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.4).  Then the pupils go to the board and move the words 
under the correct heading and say the complete sentence with the target words and the chunks. They are 
then asked to say a sentence with the target chunk aloud as a class. Each sentence is repeated after each 
pair. Their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum. The same game can be played with pictures on the blackboard if 
there are technological/technical problems (D2.5). To organise the pupils’ further practice to consolidate the 
target language chunks, the teacher could create some action sequences in context by repeating, saying, 
and acting out with different activity bundles where their learning can be checked as described in items (5), 
(8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (CS2.13). There 
is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Pupils can automatically, spontaneously, 
and naturally select and use the target language chunks in the current context (SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, 
V14.1 14.3, V15.5, LS5, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2). For consolidation of the target language chunks, the teacher 
can facilitate more fun activities and games so that the pupils can practise and consolidate them (V4.4, 
V7.2).
ENG.3.1.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by using 
language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme which 
is about “school life with (extended) greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, 

===== PDF_PAGE_179 =====
179
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations” as in other themes. 
Writing activities are arranged according to age and level so they are quite limited and are gradually expanded 
(V3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V14.1 14.3, V15.5, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.3.1.W2.
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions with 
a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are asked 
to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they get used 
to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written language 
(D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). To further practise guided and copied writing, the teacher gives 
all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2) (of two, three, four etc.) 
and to write the names of the vocabulary items “school life with (extended) greetings and introductions at 
school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and 
celebrations” next to their drawings on the model related to school life. The teacher asks them to look at 
the Smart Board screen with the model related to school life that she/he has made earlier so that the pupils 
can easily copy the target words for the items as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.2, V4.4, V7.3, V14.1 14.3, V15.5, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS4, LS5).
ENG.3.1.W3.
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form of a 
new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/writing 
(copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “school life” in fun, enjoyable, varied, 
and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, practical, and appropriate to the pupils’ age 
and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.20).
ENG.3.1.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.3.1.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme “school life with (extended) greetings and 
introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; 
national days and celebrations” from simple to more expanded versions in their writing (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, 
V4.2, V14.1 14.3, V15.1, V15.5, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20).  AI-based technologies can be 
used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce simple digital 
materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, V11.1, 
LS2, CS2.20). These activities can be evaluated as described in items (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.

===== PDF_PAGE_180 =====
180
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.1.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing expression process and asks them to express their  
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15).  Pupils express what they think and feel about 
them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, 
SELS2.2). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and  
collaborative design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.3.1.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme about “school 
life with (extended) greetings and introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, 
ages and birthday celebrations; national days and celebrations” (V3.2, V4.2, V14.1 14.3, V15.5, V18.2, V19.1, 
V19.2, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.3.1.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6). They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.
ENG.3.1.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo/picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).
ENG.3.1.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. To interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “school life with (extended) greetings and introductions 
at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; national days and 
celebrations” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V11.1, V14.1 14.3, V15.5, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20).  
AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They 
can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings for developing 
their oral skills (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V3.4, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).
ENG.3.1.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:
Pupils communicate with each other by seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target 
words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities 
(SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation 

===== PDF_PAGE_181 =====
181
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
and revision. These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the 
pupils’ age, interests, and language level. Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively 
and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, 
LS1). Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as 
dialogues, show and tell activities, acting out activities to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar in 
use, and the social language for the theme “school life” and its components such as “(extended) greetings and 
introductions at school, people and places at school, months of the year, ages and birthday celebrations; 
national days and celebrations” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V7.2, V14.1 14.3, V15.5, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS4, 
LS5, CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to 
authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items 
(7), (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
Then they can expand their language use and practise by communicating with others.
ENG.3.1.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.15).  The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To talk about the roles at school and places at school in English by using target vocabulary items 
through interactive activities.
Activity 1: Pantomime
The teacher hangs pictures of places at school on the whiteboard and asks the whole class to repeat the 
words. The teacher splits the class into two teams (Team A and Team B). A pupil from Team A draws a role 
card without showing it to others.
The pupil pantomimes the role (e.g., pretending to read a book for “a librarian” or sweeping the floor for “a 
cleaner”). Team B, guessing the role, says the correct place and matches the places at school on the board 
with the role cards by hanging them on the board. When matching is over, pupils can say both the name of 
the place and the name of the roles at school. The teacher supports the correct pronunciation of target 
words. They repeat every word in a sentence as the whole class. Teams switch roles, repeating the steps 
until all pupils have participated or all cards have been used. The teacher provides positive feedback to 
encourage them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.

===== PDF_PAGE_182 =====
182
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Supporting
Objective: To talk about the roles and places at school in English by using target vocabulary items through 
interactive activities. 
Activity 2: Pantomime
The teacher hangs pictures of places at school on the whiteboard and asks the whole class to repeat the 
words. The teacher splits the class into two teams (Team A and Team B). A pupil from Team A draws a role 
card without showing it to others.
The pupil pantomimes the role (e.g., pretending to read a book for “a librarian” or sweeping the floor for “a 
cleaner”). Team B matches the school places on the board with the role cards by hanging them on the board. 
They repeat every word (or in a sentence) as the whole class. Teams switch roles, repeating the steps until all 
pupils have participated or all cards have been used. The teacher provides positive feedback to encourage 
them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE.  

===== PDF_PAGE_183 =====
183
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 2: CLASSROOM LIFE
Sub-theme: Classroom instructions and language; 
classroom furniture, objects, and devices; school 
subjects; seasons of the year 
This theme is centred on the concept of “classroom life” and covers the sub-
themes of “classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, 
and devices; school subjects; seasons of the year”. These components (sub-
themes) are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised 
use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and 
social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed 
to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within 
and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity,  
D3.5. Open-Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill 
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, 
V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, V14. Respect, V15. Love and 
Affection, V18. Cleanliness, V20. Benevolence

===== PDF_PAGE_184 =====
184
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Life Study/ Science of Life, Visual Arts, Music, Physical 
Education and Games
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. 
Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, 
CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis 
Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_185 =====
185
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 3 is structured based on holistic approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.3.2.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, 
objects, and devices, school subjects, seasons of the year”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures and context.
ENG.3.2.L2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “classroom life with classroom 
instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices, school subjects, 
seasons of the year” together with key details and main components while listening/watching 
it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.3.2.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “classroom life 
with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices, school 
subjects, seasons of the year” through details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age- and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school. 
ENG.3.2.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “classroom 
life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices, 
school subjects, seasons of the year” in a very simple way.
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_186 =====
186
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.2.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and 
devices, school subjects, seasons of the year” accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous selection and using it in an appropriate and effective way when communicating 
with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.3.2.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and 
devices, school subjects, seasons of the year”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.3.2.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “classroom life with classroom 
instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices, school subjects, 
seasons of the year” through skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-visual elements and 
reading the content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.3.2.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “classroom life 
with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices, school 
subjects, seasons of the year” by reading it carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it in 
a simple and meaningful way.
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.

===== PDF_PAGE_187 =====
187
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.
ENG.3.2.R4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “classroom life with classroom 
instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices, school subjects, 
seasons of the year” for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/
or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.3.2.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “classroom life 
with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices, school 
subjects, seasons of the year” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use 
it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.3.2.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the current 
content about “classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, 
objects, and devices, school subjects, seasons of the year” accurately, authentically, 
spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating 
with others.
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.

===== PDF_PAGE_188 =====
188
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically 
and by pointing.
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.3.2.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on 
“classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and 
devices, school subjects, seasons of the year” in an age- and level-appropriate way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.3.2.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on 
“classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, 
and devices, school subjects, seasons of the year” based on the model/example provided to 
practise for further writing activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.3.2.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and 
devices, school subjects, seasons of the year” based on the model/example provided.
a) Pupils organise a very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.3.2.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the 
current content “classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom 
furniture, objects, and devices, school subjects, seasons of the year”.
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 
ENG.3.2.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks about 
the “classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, 
and devices, school subjects, seasons of the year” to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully and individually reorganising it.

===== PDF_PAGE_189 =====
189
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.
ENG.3.2.W6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “classroom life with classroom instructions 
and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices, school subjects, seasons of the 
year” very simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or 
with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.3.2.S1.  Pupils can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “classroom 
life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices, 
school subjects, seasons of the year” with the help of supplementary audio-visual materials.
a) Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and imitation after 
completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used during the 
initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current content.
ENG.3.2.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme 
on “classroom life with classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, 
and devices, school subjects, seasons of the year”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.3.2.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “classroom life with classroom instructions 
and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices, school subjects, seasons of the 
year” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.
ENG.3.2.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “classroom life with classroom instructions 
and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices, school subjects, seasons of the 
year” through reconstruction by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.

===== PDF_PAGE_190 =====
190
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.2.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “classroom life with 
classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices, school 
subjects, seasons of the year” by reconstructing it to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.
b) Pupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.
ENG.3.2.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “classroom life with classroom instructions 
and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices, school subjects, seasons of the 
year” very simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or 
with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_191 =====
191
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
CLASSROOM LIFE
Sub-themes: Classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices; school 
subjects; seasons of the year
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Classroom instructions and classroom language (Not to teach as target language chunks with structural 
rules but to be used constantly by the teacher as meta-language)
Open/ Close your book, please!
Open page.…in your books, please!
Take your seat, please!
Say it again, please!
Listen and repeat, please!
Repeat after me, please!
Watch the video, please!
May/Can I come in?
Colour it, please!
Circle it, please!
Work in pairs, please!
Match the words, please!
Try again, please!
Answer the question, please!
Speak louder, please!
Spell the word, please!
Classroom language:
Let’s start the lesson!
That’s correct!
Have you finished?
Last five minutes!
Nice/great job!
Thank you!
You’re welcome!
Time’s over!
It’s on time!
Perfect!
Look outside!
Turn on the lights!
Answer the question!  
Try again!
Classroom furniture: A teacher’s desk, a student’s desk, a bookshelf, a teacher’s chair, a locker, a basket 
Classroom features: lights.
Classroom objects: A pen, a ruler, a coursebook, a workbook, an exercise book (notebook-AmE.), a map, a 
school bag, a paintbrush, a bin (trash can-AmE.), a white-blackboard, a duster, a flashcard, a card.
Classroom devices: A keyboard, a mouse, a microphone.
School subjects: A lesson (class-AmE.), Life Study, Maths, Turkish, English, Music, Sports, PE.
Nouns:  A word, a letter, a point, a winner, a prize
Colours: Dark, light: (red, white, black, pink, grey, blue, purple, yellow, brown, green) 
Weather: Sunny, (it’s) raining (rainy-AmE.), (it’s) snowing (snowy-AmE.), warm, windy.
Cardinal Numbers: 20-50 
The alphabet (song)

===== PDF_PAGE_192 =====
192
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Language Chunks in Use:
-Language Chunks “To be” (present): (+), (-), (?):
What time is it? It’s five o’clock. 
What lesson is it now? It’s/is Maths.
How’s/is the weather today/now? It’s/is raining today .(It’s rainy (AmE.) today).
Function: Telling what things are, what colour things are, existence of lessons, number of things and people, 
what people are wearing, how the weather is. 
-Countable nouns: a ruler- rulers
What are they? They are rulers.
Function: Describing countable nouns builds understanding of singular and plural forms.
-There is/there are: (only for countable nouns)
Is there a Maths lesson on Monday?
(Yes, there’s/is a Maths lesson on Monday). Yes, there is. 
Function: Expressing the existence of things and people. 
-How many rulers are there on the table? 
There are two rulers on the table. There are two rulers. Two rulers. 
Function: Counting and describing quantities.
-Have got/has got: (+) (?) (only with countable nouns and with numbers)
How many pencils have you got? I’ve/have got two pencils.
Function: Describing possession of objects.
-Possessive adjectives: my, his, her,its, our, your, their
 Function: Describing ownership by modifying a noun to show ownership
-Question words: what time, how many
Function: Asking time and quantity.
-Time expressions: today, now
Function: Describing the present.
Target Social Language in Use:
You look great!
What  nice weather!
It’s freezing!
Everything is all right! 
That’s right!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Consonants: c, d, 
Consonants: c: (/si/, /k/); d: (/d/)
*No pronunciation symbols will be provided in any material written for the pupils, only the sounds in the 
words including them will be practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_193 =====
193
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations 
The concept of “classroom life” is present in almost all languages because it is one of the most basic parts 
of human beings’ lives and all children in different parts of the world go to different types of schools. People 
who start to learn a new language bring with them their previous/pre-existing knowledge and transfer it to 
their new language learning. So, a primary school pupil in year 3 will know what “a classroom and classroom 
life” mean as a concept but will not know its equivalents in another language if it has not been covered in 
their existing foreign language curriculum . However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help 
them recognise, understand, and learn it more easily in a foreign language, English in this case.
Principles
Classroom is presented as a place where classroom instructions, furniture, objects, and devices function 
as important components.
Classroom is an important context where initial social interactions, such as understanding classroom 
language and exploring school subjects, are naturally and authentically practiced in EFL.
Key Concepts:
Instructions, language, objects, devices, furniture, classroom, classroom instructions, classroom language, 
classroom objects, classroom devices, classroom furniture, school, school subjects, seasons, year, seasons 
of the year.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Pupils will design a Picture Dictionary titled “Classroom Life”, including 
vocabulary related to classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices; 
school subjects; seasons of the year”. They will organise the dictionary into sections, such as instructions 
(“Open your books”), furniture (“a teacher’s desk”), objects (“a pen”), devices (“a keyboard”), school subjects 
(“English, Maths”), and seasons (“winter, spring”). Each word will be paired with a drawing or printed picture 
and labelled correctly. Pupils will copy simple example sentences for each word, such as “There is a pen on 
the desk.” They are encouraged to design their dictionaries creatively with colours and decorations. Finally, 
pupils will present 5-7 selected words and sentences to the class. The class will rate the presentations 
through the rating scales or checklists given by the teacher.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of the “classroom life” with its components such as “classroom 
instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices; school subjects; seasons of the year” in 
their own language. As the pupils are 8-year-old primary school children, they can know what classroom life, 
classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices; school subjects; seasons 
of the year mean in their own language and to be able to express them in their own language.  However, they 
would not know them in a foreign language, in this case English, if they were not covered in their existing 
school curriculum. This knowledge in their own language would prepare them to identify the same concepts 
in their foreign language, English, without speaking any Turkish. It is assumed that they have learnt how 
to ask what things are and how to introduce them using language chunks such as “What’s/is it?  It’s/is a 
chair. What colour is it? It’s/is blue. What colour is the chair? The chair is blue. It’s blue.” in English from the 
previous themes and/or year. These chunks can be used as a basis for learning the new language chunks in 
the current theme making the new chunks easier to learn. This can be an activity such as a short game, a 
physical activity, listening to a song/chant/rhyme and so on which will not require any English knowledge and 
also there will not be a need to speak Turkish. 

===== PDF_PAGE_194 =====
194
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that pupils’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about “classroom life” as a concept in English. Some previous themes from previous years would be 
helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “classroom life, classroom 
instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices; school subjects; seasons of the year”. 
Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise “classroom life, classroom instructions and language; 
classroom furniture, objects, and devices; school subjects; seasons of the year” they learnt before. Some 
language chunks such as “What’s/is it?  It’s/is a chair. What colour is it? It’s/is blue. What colour is the chair? 
The chair is blue. It’s blue.” are also revised by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this 
way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able 
to understand and use previously learnt vocabulary and language chunks to build their competence in the 
current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge 
and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated 
by rubrics and/or checklists.)
Establishing Links
Pupils are asked to recall the current (theme) concept of “classroom life” and its components such as 
“classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices; school subjects; seasons 
of the year”, by remembering their previous/pre-existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively 
through thinking) in their own language to make links with the current activities in the theme in English 
without translating anything until they start learning the target words in the current concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept 
various visual materials such as a short digital cartoon, a picture, a poster can be prepared and shown (it 
can be a paper picture format if there are technological problems) before the main teaching/learning flow of 
the lesson begins. The pupils are facilitated through the materials they have learnt the concept of it in the 
previous years with various activities. Then they are asked in simple English what was it about. They get help 
from the teacher to be able remember and say. For example the teacher could show the pictures with the 
words next to them so that pupils can remember some vocabulary and language chunks from the previous 
years. The teacher asks them to wait until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the introductory digital story, without asking any further questions.
One of the example practices could be to point correctly to a picture of the current concept in it when they 
are given instructions by the teacher in simple English.  Pupils give responses by pointing out relevant so-
called pictures without speaking any Turkish but only in very simple English or with mimics and gestures.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about the current theme (in their minds) 
in their own language and the present information about the concept through meaningful contextualised 
activities with visuals within the theme.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME FOR WELL-BEING
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive and 
ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as playing a 
short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, saying a tongue 
twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of 
English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 

===== PDF_PAGE_195 =====
195
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG.3.2.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current 
theme during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “classroom life” in their minds, so 
a further concept check would help them prepare for the current theme (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, CS2.11, 
CS2.16.2). For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and show a card model of a school and 
sets of pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the pupils to point to the pictures in or 
on the model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context of the theme, the introductory 
digital story, that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.8). For each theme, a digitally 
constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through 
the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic 
meaning of the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the 
same time. (A 3-D model of classroom life can also be created using Web 2.0 programmes.) They can guess 
the sub-concepts of classroom life, so they can easily understand that the current theme will be “classroom 
life” (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.4, V5.3, V14.1, V18.2, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17).
ENG.3.2.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “classroom 
life with (extended) classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices; school 
subjects; seasons of the year” as a whole, without stopping the video at any point, so that the pupils can 
understand the theme/topic holistically (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.3, V5.3, V14.1, V18.2, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.14, 
CS2.16.2).
ENG.3.2.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to 
the content about classroom life and its relevant components, some pictures are brought into the classroom 
by the teacher. The teacher brings a necessary number of large boxes for the pictures (some symbols are 
stuck on the boxes for classroom life with (extended) classroom instructions and language; classroom 
furniture, objects, and devices; school subjects; seasons of the year) and puts the boxes on the table. She/
He puts the corresponding picture into the related box when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in 
the introductory digital story without stopping the video while the pupils watch the story (V3.3, V5.3, V14.1, 
V18.2, LS1, LS5). When they have watched the whole story, the teacher shows the items in the boxes on the 
table and asks some simple display questions about it. In this way, the teacher could carry out a monologue 
and also engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the theme as a whole 
through its components, which can be used to check their learning as described in item (8) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, V6.1, LS2, LS4, 
CS2.8). After watching the introductory digital story, the teacher takes all the pictures out of the boxes and 
puts them back on the table again and says the word “classroom life” several times aloud, and the pupils 
repeat after her/him. In this way, the main vocabulary of the theme “classroom life” is introduced to the pupils 
in English. To remember the sequence of the scenes with the parts, places, and people in the “classroom 
life” in the introductory digital story, the teacher shows the mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the 

===== PDF_PAGE_196 =====
196
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Smart Board and asks the pupils to look at the images/ pictures of these scenes for a while (CS2.3). She/
He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs with the mixed paper pictures she has already given to the 
pupils (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2). When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for scenes of the 
story, the teacher asks the pupils to take turns or volunteer to order the scenes on the screen of the Smart 
Board (or the pictures on the blackboard (SELS1.2, V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10). This will help the 
teacher organise the story as a whole so that the pupils can identify the main theme and the components of 
the theme through their memories (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, CS2.12).
ENG.3.2.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3).
ENG.3.2.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “classroom life with (extended) classroom 
instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices; school subjects; seasons of the year”, 
the teacher puts on the table the pictures and boxes that she/he has previously used. She/He holds up each 
picture and asks the pupils to repeat each word aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to the 
recordings she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes. She/He puts the picture in 
the correct box about the group corresponding to the word while repeating the words with the whole class 
(V3.4, V5.3, V14.1, V18.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer variations with some techniques, 
such as showing the picture of the target words about classroom life to the pupils to say the word or pointing 
to the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the recording, and then both. To help the pupils 
pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as 
a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then again as 
volunteers, using the shadow technique, in which pupils immediately repeat whatever the teacher is saying 
or the story, without pausing (D1.3, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V3.4, V7.1, LS2, CS2.14).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended with 
different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for the classroom life and its 
components, the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts them out, the pupils repeat 
after her/him (SELS2.1, CS2.6). Then the teacher and the pupils say the target words and act them out 
together at the same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts them out (V3.4, V4.2, V15.1, 
LS4). These “classroom life”-related actions can be done through the actions which can be done in the school, 
but they are only used for acting without teaching them as verbs in English. For instance, they can pretend 
to do things according to the topic. As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, 
sadly, angrily etc. using different tones of voice through TPR techniques (SELS2.3, V11.1, V12.2, LS5, CS2.9). 
Then some groups of pupils say the words, some groups of pupils act them out. While doing the repetitions, 
they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom. Some action 
sequences are also created through which the pupils can practise the social language expressions of the 
theme in a fun way by repeating, pointing, and miming in several games. Several fun pronunciation games 
could be played where pupils whisper a target word into the ears of their peers forming a chain and the 
last person says it aloud and the class checks if the word is pronounced correctly or not (D2.5, SELS2.1, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, V6.2, LS6, CS2.12).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.

===== PDF_PAGE_197 =====
197
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.2.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS : The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract 
from the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading 
sections of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are 
limited reading texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and 
speed reading are used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading 
for detail are used in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases are used 
in a simplified and age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend and 
help talk/write about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language and 
communicative competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3). For the initial stage of 
reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, 
scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory 
story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall 
the conceptual meanings they already have about the theme on “classroom life with (extended) classroom 
instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices; school subjects; seasons of the year” 
(V3.3, V5.3, V14.1, V18.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.8). At this stage, the teacher could ask the pupils to read the 
title/heading of the content and ask the pupils which words they already know, and which come to mind in 
connection with the title by showing them a list of words and corresponding pictures to choose the ones 
they know (SELS1.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask for the meanings of new words 
or the words they do not know. She/He reminds them that this is only a recalling activity to check the words 
they know and that there will be time to work on the new words of the new theme later (D3.2, D3.6, V12.1, 
CS2.10, CS2.12).
ENG.3.2.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 
3-D house model of “classroom life” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each item, the written form of 
the word is provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words first silently. The teacher 
then points to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole class. Then she/he invites 
volunteers to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of the class read them aloud 
as a chorus (D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG.3.2.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version 
of the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/Smart Board. She/ He 
asks the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones (SELS2.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14) . From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used 
to understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “classroom life with (extended) classroom 
instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices; school subjects; seasons of the year” 
(SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V5.3, V14.1, V18.2, LS5).  During this process pupils work collaboratively to exchange 

===== PDF_PAGE_198 =====
198
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
information, thoughts, and feelings (SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.6). This is evaluated as described in items (6), (7), 
(8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.3.2.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: 
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1). The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3).
ENG.3.2.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.
ENG.3.2.V2.
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to the 
theme “classroom life with (extended) classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, 
and devices; school subjects; seasons of the year”, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory 
digital story again. A scanning activity to find out the main details of the introductory digital story (and/or a 
new text in the reading section) is organised to help pupils to know more about the content. This could help 
them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The activity could be designed by listing some 
pictures for the vocabulary about the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text (V3.3, 
V3.4, V5.3, V14.1, V18.2, LS5). Pupils circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned (quickly 
read) in the story/text. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general by using the main 
elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items (D3.2, D3.6,CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then, 
from the beginning, whenever an item related to “classroom life” is mentioned, the teacher stops the video 
and asks a question in the form of two options by showing their pictures (CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what 
they are based on the pictures, the scene, and the sound, pupils hear the English equivalents of the words 
for the classroom life with (extended) classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, 
and devices; school subjects; seasons of the year, and they answer as a whole class. In this way, they are 
introduced to the meaning of the target words (D1.1, V5.3, V18.2, LS5, CS2.10). This is done in the form of a 
dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (SELS2.1) (3) and (8) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.2, V14.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.3.2.V3.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “classroom life”, the teacher prepares an activity using the Web 2.0 program with images/
pictures of components of “classroom life”. She/He prepares three boxes on one side of the screen and 
mixed images/ pictures for target vocabulary related to the “classroom life” on the other side. She/He asks 
the pupils to look at the mixed pile of images/pictures on the Smart Board screen and scan them for a while 
to remember them (CS2.4). She/He asks the pupils to drag the objects about the components of the theme 
into the correct box on the screen. The boxes have the words for each component represented on them with 
symbolic pictures. The pupils are given the cut-out pictures and a large sheet of paper with the pictures of 
empty boxes. The teacher asks them to work in pairs and put the cut-out pictures in the right box and ask 

===== PDF_PAGE_199 =====
199
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
each other several display questions (CS2.5). When the pupils have finished working with the cut-outs and 
asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the 
Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures as the components of the theme “classroom life” 
to the correct empty boxes on the screen (SELS1.2, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant 
to the concept of the theme “classroom life” are consolidated through categorisation. The same activity can 
be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. To practise the 
meanings of the target words about the school, the teacher places several pictures for them in the different 
parts of the classroom. She/He then puts some flashcards with the target vocabulary for “classroom life” on 
the blackboard/whiteboard. She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows it to the pupils. Pupils, working 
in pairs, look at the flashcard, decide which picture on the classroom walls is relevant, they go to the 
picture together, pin the flashcard to the noticeboard and say the word together first in pairs, and then as a 
whole class (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.5). To consolidate the meanings of the new 
vocabulary items for the concept of “classroom life”, the teacher could organise several activities in pairs and 
groups with pictures and flashcards such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, etc. (SELS2.2). 
These activities are closed and controlled so that pupils can practise the current (new) vocabulary about the 
current context in the beginning but later they work with simple and easy open-ended and communicative 
activities (D2.5, SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5). This is evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The teacher asks the pupils to 
copy the words in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling using the words written on the model school on the blackboard/
Smart Board (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). This is evaluated as described in items (3) and 
(4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.3.2.G1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS:  To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target language 
chunks about the theme “classroom life with (extended) classroom instructions and language; classroom 
furniture, objects, and devices; school subjects; seasons of the year” (D3.2, V5.3, V14.1, V18.2, LS5, CS2.2). 
While the pupils watch the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target 
language chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking 
the pupils to do the same (CS2.14). She/He could hold up large pictures and ask the pupils questions about 
the pictures with the target chunks expecting the pupils to ask and answer by using the target chunks. To 
check the pupils’ identification of the target language chunks, the teacher shows some picture strips that 
she/he has prepared for this activity, using some Web 2.0 programmes, after the pupils have watched the 
introductory digital story and imitated the actions and said the target language chunks. She/He asks the 
pupils to listen to her/him saying a target language chunk and then to look at the screen and say “Stop!” when 
they see a scene in the picture strips with the target chunk that the teacher has just said (SELS3.1, CS2.7). 
The teacher stops if the pupils are correct, but not if they are not (V3.3, V4.1, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.3.2.G2.
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme “classroom life with (extended) classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, 
objects, and devices; school subjects; seasons of the year”, and writes the appropriate language chunks to 
be used with each of the groups. She/He also provides the vocabulary items on the Smart Board screen. The 
teacher wants the pupils to think for a while and talk with their peers about which target words can be used 
in which language chunk group (SELS2.2, V3.1, V5.3, V10.3, V14.1, V18.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.4).  Then the 
pupils go to the board and move the words under the correct heading and say the complete sentence with 
the target words and the chunks. They are then asked to say a sentence with the target chunk aloud as a 
class. Each sentence is repeated after each pair. Their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), 

===== PDF_PAGE_200 =====
200
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The same game can 
be played with pictures on the blackboard if there are technological/technical problems (D2.5). To organise 
the pupils’ further practice to consolidate the target language chunks, the teacher could create some action 
sequences in context by repeating, saying, and acting out with different activity bundles where their learning 
can be checked as described in items (5), (8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum (CS2.13). There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. 
Pupils can automatically, spontaneously, and naturally select and use the target language chunks in the 
current context (SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, LS5, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  For consolidation of the target 
language chunks, the teacher can facilitate more fun activities and games so that the pupils can practise 
and consolidate them (V4.4, V7.2).
ENG.3.2.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by using 
language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme which 
is about “classroom life with (extended) classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, 
and devices; school subjects; seasons of the year” as in other themes. Writing activities are arranged 
according to age and level so they are quite limited and are gradually expanded (V3.2, V3.4, V5.3, V14.1, 
V18.2, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.3.2.W2.
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions with 
a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are asked 
to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they get used 
to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written language 
(D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). To further practise guided and copied writing, the teacher gives 
all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2) (of two, three, four etc.) 
and to write the names of the vocabulary items “classroom life with (extended) classroom instructions and 
language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices; school subjects; seasons of the year” next to their 
drawings on the model related to classroom life. The teacher asks them to look at the Smart Board screen 
with the model related to classroom life that she/he has made earlier so that the pupils can easily copy the 
target words for the items as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum (V4.4, V5.3, V7.3, V14.1, V18.2, LS4, LS5).
ENG.3.2.W3.
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form of a 
new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/writing 
(copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “classroom life” in fun, enjoyable, varied, 
and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, practical, and appropriate to the pupils’ age 
and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.20).
ENG.3.2.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 

===== PDF_PAGE_201 =====
201
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.3.2.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme “classroom life with (extended) classroom 
instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices; school subjects; seasons of the year” 
from simple to more expanded versions in their writing (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V4.2, V5.3, V14.1, V15.1, V18.2, 
LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to 
authentic materials. They can also produce simple digital materials and projects at school and at home in a 
variety of ways (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20). These activities can be evaluated as 
described in items (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.
ENG.3.2.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing expression process and asks them to express their  
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15).  Pupils express what they think and feel about 
them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, 
SELS2.2). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and  
collaborative design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.3.2.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language 
including the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme 
about “classroom life with (extended) classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, 
and devices; school subjects; seasons of the year” (V3.2, V4.2, V5.3, V14.1, V18.2, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.3.2.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6). They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.
ENG.3.2.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo/picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).

===== PDF_PAGE_202 =====
202
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.2.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. To interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “classroom life with (extended) classroom 
instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices; school subjects; seasons of the 
year” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V5.3, V11.1, V14.1, V18.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20).  AI-based technologies can 
be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital 
materials and projects at school and at home through recordings for developing their oral skills (D1.2, D1.6, 
D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V3.4, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).
ENG.3.2.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:
Pupils communicate with each other by seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target 
words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities 
(SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation 
and revision. These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the 
pupils’ age, interests, and language level. Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively 
and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, 
LS1). Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as 
dialogues, show and tell activities, acting out activities to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar 
in use, and the social language for the theme “classroom life” and its components such as “(extended) 
classroom instructions and language; classroom furniture, objects, and devices; school subjects; seasons 
of the year” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V5.3, V7.2, V14.1, V18.2, LS4, CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies 
can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital 
materials and projects at school and at home through recordings (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, 
CS2.20). These are evaluated as described in items (7), (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use and practise by 
communicating with others.
ENG.3.2.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.15).  The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_203 =====
203
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To identify classroom objects in English by using target vocabulary and target language chunks. 
Activity 1: What’s Missing
The teacher gathers 8-10 common classroom objects. After clearly naming each item and demonstrating it, 
the teacher asks the whole class to repeat. Before starting, the teacher ensures that the pupils understand 
the material. The teacher covers the items with a cloth, then secretly removes one object while ensuring 
the pupils are not watching. Uncover the remaining items and ask the class, “What’s missing?”. Encourage 
pupils to raise their hands or call out the answer by using “there is, there are, there isn’t, there aren’t” forms. 
If a student answers correctly, they receive a point or a sticker as a reward. After the student’s answer, 
the teacher repeats the sentence to the whole class once more. This activity helps to improve memory, 
vocabulary recall, and speaking confidence in a fun and interactive way. The teacher gives them encouraging 
remarks to boost their confidence. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using 
emoticons.
Supporting
Objective: To practice the language for classroom objects in English by guessing and using target vocabulary. 
Activity 2: What’s Missing
The teacher gathers 8-10 common classroom objects. After clearly naming each item and demonstrating 
each one one at a time, the teacher asks the whole class to repeat. Before starting, the teacher ensures that 
the pupils understand the material. The teacher covers the items with a cloth, then secretly removes one 
object while ensuring the pupils are not watching. Uncover the remaining items and ask the class, “What’s 
missing?”. Encourage pupils to raise their hands or call out the answer. If a student answers correctly, they 
receive a point or a sticker as a reward. After the pupil’s answer, the teacher repeats the target word to the 
whole class once more. This activity helps to improve memory, vocabulary recall, and speaking confidence 
in a fun and interactive way. The teacher gives them encouraging remarks to boost their confidence. Pupils 
reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE.  

===== PDF_PAGE_204 =====
204
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 3: PERSONAL LIFE
Sub-themes: Parts of the body and physical features; 
personal characters; weather conditions; clothing 
according to seasons and weather conditions; 
preferences for clothing
This theme is centred on the concept of “personal life” and covers the sub-
themes of “parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather 
conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences 
for clothing”. These components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning 
process through the contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical 
structures, phonological features, and social language expressions. The 
learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, 
and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ developmental 
level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to 
equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively 
use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V10. Modesty, V11. 
Independence, V12. Patience, V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V15. Love and 
Affection, V18. Cleanliness, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_205 =====
205
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Life Study/ Science of Life, Visual Arts, Music, Physical 
Education and Games
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. 
Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, 
CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis 
Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_206 =====
206
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 3 is structured based on holistic approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.3.3.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “personal life with parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; 
weather conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for 
clothing”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures and context.
ENG.3.3.L2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “personal life with parts of the 
body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to 
seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” together with key details and main 
components while listening/watching it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.3.3.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “personal life with 
parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing 
according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” through details by 
listening/watching it carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age- and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school. 
ENG.3.3.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “personal 
life with parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; 
clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” in a very 
simple way.
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_207 =====
207
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.
ENG.3.3.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“personal life with parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather 
conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” 
accurately, authentically, and naturally through spontaneous selection and using it in an 
appropriate and effective way when communicating with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.3.3.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“personal life with parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather 
conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.3.3.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “personal life with parts of the 
body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to 
seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” through skimming (looking quickly 
at) the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.3.3.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “personal life 
with parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; 
clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” by reading 
it carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it 
in a simple and meaningful way.

===== PDF_PAGE_208 =====
208
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.
ENG.3.3.R4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the reading-
comprehension process about the current content, “personal life with parts of the body and 
physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons 
and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” for reflection in relation to themselves or 
others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.3.3.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “personal life 
with parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; 
clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” accurately, 
authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when 
communicating with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.3.3.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the current 
content about “personal life with parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; 
weather conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for 
clothing” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and 
effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.

===== PDF_PAGE_209 =====
209
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically 
and by pointing.
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.3.3.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “personal 
life with parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; 
clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” in an age- 
and level-appropriate way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.3.3.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on “personal 
life with parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; 
clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” based on 
the model/example provided to practise for further writing activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.3.3.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“personal life with parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather 
conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” 
based on the model/example provided.
a) Pupils organise a very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.3.3.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “personal life with parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; 
weather conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for 
clothing”.
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 

===== PDF_PAGE_210 =====
210
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 
ENG.3.3.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks about 
the “personal life with parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather 
conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” 
to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully and individually reorganising it.
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.
ENG.3.3.W6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “personal life with parts of the body and 
physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons 
and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” very simply for reflection in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.3.3.S1.  Pupils can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “personal 
life with parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; 
clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” with the help 
of supplementary audio-visual materials.
a) ENG.3.1.PC1. Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and 
imitation after completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used 
during the initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current 
content.
ENG.3.3.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme 
on “personal life with parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather 
conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.3.3.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “personal life with parts of the body and 
physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons 
and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and 
authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.

===== PDF_PAGE_211 =====
211
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.3.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “personal life with parts of the body and 
physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons 
and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” through reconstruction by speaking 
accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.
ENG.3.3.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “personal life with 
parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing 
according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” by reconstructing it 
to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.
b) Pupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.
ENG.3.3.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “personal life with parts of the body and 
physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons 
and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” very simply for reflection in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_212 =====
212
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
PERSONAL LIFE 
Sub-themes: Parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing 
according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary): 
Parts of the body: A foot, feet, back, a tooth, teeth, a chin, an eyelash(es), an eyebrow(s). 
Adjectives: Hair: Blond(e), curly, straight; physical features: little, strong, weak, beautiful, pretty, nice, 
handsome, fat, ugly; personal characters: nice, good, bad, happy, sad, lazy, hardworking, young, old.
Weather: Sunny, (it’s) raining (rainy- AmE.), (it’s) snowing (snowy- AmE.), warm, windy. 
Verbs for feelings about body parts: To like, to dislike.
Clothes: Tops: A sweatshirt, a jumper (a sweater- AmE.); Bottoms: jeans, a skirt; Dresses: a dress Outwear: 
a jacket, a coat, a uniform Footwear: boots, shoes; Accessories: a necklace, an earring, a bag, sunglasses, 
socks.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
(Background and) Target Language Chunks in Use: 
Language Chunk: (“To be”): (What’s your name? I’m/ am… / My name is…).
( What does she look like? She’s tall and beautiful).
Function: Asking and answering about ages of people, talking about birthdays and celebrating birthdays, 
talking about physical features.
Language Chunks: (“Have got/ Has got: (+) (-) (?)”):  
(Have you got a big or small nose? I’ve/have got a small nose). 
(Have you got any T-shirts? Yes, I’ve/have got some T-shirts).
(What colour hair has she got? She’s/has got blonde hair).
(How is her hair? What’s her hair like? She’s/has got curly hair).  
Function: Describing possession of clothes and body parts.
Language Chunks: (“Like/dislike”):(I like/hate/dislike/love big sunglasses).
Function: Expressing personal preferences and opinions about clothing.
Language Chunk: (“Possessive “s”):( Whose dress is this? This is Jasmine’s dress).
Function: Indicating ownership or relationships between people and objects.
Language Chunks (“Present Progressive”):  (What are you wearing today? I’m/am wearing a T-shirt today. I’m 
wearing a coat. It’s winter and it’s cold).
Function: Describing what people are wearing
Countable and uncountable nouns with some, any, much, many.
(Have you got any shirts? Yes, I’ve got some shirts).
Function: Asking and answering questions about quantity and availability.
Question words: Whose, what…like.
Function: Asking about ownership, characteristics, or descriptions of people or objects.
Conjunctions: and, or.
Function: Connecting similar ideas, options, or items in a sentence.

===== PDF_PAGE_213 =====
213
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Target Social Language in Use:
You look great!
Anytime!
It’s my pleasure!
Go on , please!
Nice shirt/T-shirt/etc.!
I’m so excited!
Come on!
Calm down!
Don’t forget to…..
Be careful!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Vowels:  e, i
Consonants: f, g ,h, j
Vowels: e: (/e/; /i:/, /ə/); i: (/aı/, /ı/, /i:/)
Consonants: f: (/f/); g: (/g/, /dʒ/); h: (/h/); j: (/dʒeɪ/, /dʒ/)
*No pronunciation symbols will be provided in any material written for the pupils, only the sounds in the 
words including them will be practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations 
The concept of “personal life” is present in almost all languages because it is one of the most basic parts 
of human beings’ lives and all children in different parts of the world some knowledge on “parts of the body 
and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather 
conditions; preferences for clothing”.  People who start to learn a new language bring with them their 
previous/pre-existing knowledge and transfer it to their new language learning. So, a primary school pupil 
in year 3 will know what “a person and personal life” mean as a concept but will not know its equivalents in 
another language if it has not been covered in their existing foreign language curriculum . However, this 
existing knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn it more easily in a 
foreign language, English in this case.
Key Concepts:
Parts, body, parts of the body, features, physical features, characters, personal characters, weather, 
conditions, weather conditions, clothing, seasons, clothing according to seasons, clothing according to 
weather conditions, preferences, clothing preferences.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Pupils will write a project about “Personal Life” to talk about themselves 
and what they like. In their project, they will write about four things: physical features and descriptions, 
preferences for physical features, clothing, and birthday celebrations. First, they will write about their 
physical features, like their hair colour, eye colour, height, or other things that make them special. They can 
also describe someone in their family or a friend. Next, they will write about what physical features they like 
or prefer. For example, maybe they like long hair or colourful eyes. Then, they will talk about the clothes they 
wear every day or on special occasions. Finally, they will share what they do on their birthday. They can draw 
pictures, add stickers, or make a small booklet. When their project is ready, they will present it to the class 
and talk about it. The class will rate the presentations through the rating scales or checklists given by the 
teacher.

===== PDF_PAGE_214 =====
214
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of the “personal life” with its components such as “parts of the 
body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons and 
weather conditions; preferences for clothing” in their own language. As the pupils are 8-year-old primary 
school children, they can know what parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather 
conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing mean in their 
own language and to be able to express them in their own language. However, they would not know them in 
a foreign language, in this case English, if they were not covered in their existing school curriculum. This 
knowledge in their own language would prepare them to identify the same concepts in their foreign language, 
English, without speaking any Turkish. It is assumed that they have learnt how to ask what things are and 
how to introduce them using language chunks such as “What does she look like? She’s tall and beautiful. 
Have you got a big or small nose? I’ve/have got a small nose. I like/hate/dislike/love big sunglasses. What 
are you wearing today? I’m/am wearing a T-shirt today. Have you got any shirts? Yes, I’ve got some shirts” 
in English from the previous themes and/or year. These chunks can be used as a basis for learning the new 
language chunks in the current theme making the new chunks easier to learn. This can be an activity such as 
a short game, a physical activity, listening to a song/chant/rhyme and so on which will not require any English 
knowledge and also there will not be a need to speak Turkish.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that pupils’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about “personal life” as a concept in English. Some previous themes from previous years would 
be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “parts of the body 
and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather 
conditions; preferences for clothing”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise “personal life, parts 
of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons 
and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” they learnt before. Some language chunks such as “What’s/
is it?  It’s/is a chair. What colour is it? It’s/is blue. What colour is the chair? The chair is blue. It’s blue” are also 
revised by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be 
evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to understand and use previously 
learnt vocabulary and language chunks to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided 
what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary 
and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics and/or checklists.)
Establishing Links
Pupils are asked to recall the current (theme) concept of “personal life” and its components such as “parts 
of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons 
and weather conditions; preferences for clothing”, by remembering their previous/pre-existing background 
knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with the current 
activities in the theme in English without translating anything until they start learning the target words in 
the current concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept 
various visual materials such as a short digital cartoon, a picture, a poster can be prepared and shown (it 
can be a paper picture format if there are technological problems) before the main teaching/learning flow of 
the lesson begins. The pupils are facilitated through the materials they have learnt the concept of it in the 
previous years with various activities. Then they are asked in simple English what was it about. They get help 
from the teacher to be able remember and say. For example the teacher could show the pictures with the 
words next to them so that pupils can remember some vocabulary and language chunks from the previous 
years. The teacher asks them to wait until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the introductory digital story, without asking any further questions.

===== PDF_PAGE_215 =====
215
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
One of the example practices could be to point correctly to a picture of the current concept in it when they 
are given instructions by the teacher in simple English.  Pupils give responses by pointing out relevant so-
called pictures without speaking any Turkish but only in very simple English or with mimics and gestures.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about the current theme (in their minds) 
in their own language and the present information about the concept through meaningful contextualised 
activities with visuals within the theme.
Learning-Teaching Practices
WARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME FOR WELL-BEING
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive and 
ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as playing a 
short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, saying a tongue 
twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of 
English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG.3.3.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current 
theme during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “personal life” in their minds, so a 
further concept check would help them prepare for the current theme (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, CS2.11, 
CS2.16.2). For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and show a card model of a school and 
sets of pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the pupils to point to the pictures in or 
on the model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context of the theme, the introductory 
digital story, that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.8). For each theme, a digitally 
constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through 
the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic 
meaning of the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the 
same time. (A 3-D model of personal life can also be created using Web 2.0 programmes.) They can guess 
the sub-concepts of personal life, so they can easily understand that the current theme will be “personal life” 
(D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17).
ENG.3.3.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “personal life 
with (extended) parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing 
according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” as a whole, without stopping the 
video at any point, so that the pupils can understand the theme/topic holistically (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.3, V13.4, 
V14.2, V15.2, V18.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.14, CS2.16.2).

===== PDF_PAGE_216 =====
216
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.3.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to 
the content about personal life and its relevant components, some pictures are brought into the classroom 
by the teacher. The teacher brings a necessary number of large boxes for the pictures (some symbols 
are stuck on the boxes for personal life with (extended) parts of the body and physical features; personal 
characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for 
clothing) and puts the boxes on the table. She/He puts the corresponding picture into the related box when 
the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the introductory digital story without stopping the video while 
the pupils watch the story (V3.3, V13.4, V14.2, V15.2, V18.1, LS1, LS5). When they have watched the whole 
story, the teacher shows the items in the boxes on the table and asks some simple display questions about 
it. In this way, the teacher could carry out a monologue and also engage in a dialogue with the whole class to 
check that they have recognised the theme as a whole through its components, which can be used to check 
their learning as described in item (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, V6.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8).  After watching the introductory digital story, 
the teacher takes all the pictures out of the boxes and puts them back on the table again and says the word 
“personal life” several times aloud, and the pupils repeat after her/him. In this way, the main vocabulary of the 
theme “personal life” is introduced to the pupils in English. To remember the sequence of the scenes with 
the parts, places, and people in the “personal life” in the introductory digital story, the teacher shows the 
mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the pupils to look at the images/ pictures 
of these scenes for a while (CS2.3). She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs with the mixed paper 
pictures she has already given to the pupils (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2) . When the pairs have finished 
sorting the pictures for scenes of the story, the teacher asks the pupils to take turns or volunteer to order 
the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board (or the pictures on the blackboard (SELS1.2, V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, 
LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10). This will help the teacher organise the story as a whole so that the pupils can identify 
the main theme and the components of the theme through their memories (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, CS2.12).
ENG.3.3.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3).
ENG.3.3.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “personal life with (extended) parts of 
the body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons and 
weather conditions; preferences for clothing”, the teacher puts on the table the pictures and boxes that she/
he has previously used. She/He holds up each picture and asks the pupils to repeat each word aloud a few 
times as a whole class after listening to the recordings she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 
programmes. She/He puts the picture in the correct box about the group corresponding to the word while 
repeating the words with the whole class (V3.4, V13.4, V14.2, V15.2, V18.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.16.3). The 
teacher could offer variations with some techniques, such as showing the picture of the target words about 
personal life to the pupils to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear the word 
from the recording, and then both. To help the pupils pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks 
them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in 
large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers, using the shadow technique, in which pupils 
immediately repeat whatever the teacher is saying or the story, without pausing (D1.3, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, 
V3.4, V7.1, LS2, CS2.14).

===== PDF_PAGE_217 =====
217
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended with 
different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for personal life and its 
components, the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts them out, the pupils repeat 
after her/him (SELS2.1, CS2.6). Then the teacher and the pupils say the target words and act them out 
together at the same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts them out (V3.4, V4.2, V15.1, 
LS4). These “personal life”-related actions can be done through the actions which can be done in the school, 
but they are only used for acting without teaching them as verbs in English. For instance, they can pretend 
to do things according to the topic. As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, 
sadly, angrily etc. using different tones of voice through TPR techniques (SELS2.3, V11.1, V12.2, LS5, CS2.9). 
Then some groups of pupils say the words, some groups of pupils act them out. While doing the repetitions, 
they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom. Some action 
sequences are also created through which the pupils can practise the social language expressions of the 
theme in a fun way by repeating, pointing, and miming in several games. Several fun pronunciation games 
could be played where pupils whisper a target word into the ears of their peers forming a chain and the 
last person says it aloud and the class checks if the word is pronounced correctly or not (D2.5, SELS2.1, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, V6.2, LS6, CS2.12).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.3.3.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS : The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract 
from the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading 
sections of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are 
limited reading texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and 
speed reading are used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading 
for detail are used in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases are used 
in a simplified and age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend and 
help talk/write about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language and 
communicative competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3). For the initial stage of 
reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, 
scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory 
story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the 
conceptual meanings they already have about the theme on “personal life with (extended) parts of the body 
and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather 
conditions; preferences for clothing” (V3.3, V13.4, V14.2, V15.2, V18.1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.8). At this stage, 
the teacher could ask the pupils to read the title/heading of the content and ask the pupils which words 
they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title by showing them a list of words and 
corresponding pictures to choose the ones they know (SELS1.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.16.2). She/He reminds them 
not to ask for the meanings of new words or the words they do not know. She/He reminds them that this is 
only a recalling activity to check the words they know and that there will be time to work on the new words of 
the new theme later (D3.2, D3.6, V12.1, CS2.10, CS2.12).
ENG.3.3.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 
3-D house model of “personal life” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each item, the written form of the 
word is provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words first silently. The teacher 
then points to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole class. Then she/he invites 

===== PDF_PAGE_218 =====
218
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
volunteers to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of the class read them aloud 
as a chorus (D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG.3.3.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version 
of the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/Smart Board. She/ He 
asks the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14). From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used to 
understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “personal life with (extended) parts of the body 
and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather 
conditions; preferences for clothing” (V13.4, V14.2, V15.2, V18.1, LS5, SELS3.1, SELS3.2). During this process 
pupils work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings (SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.6). This is 
evaluated as described in items (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
ENG.3.3.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: 
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1). The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3).
ENG.3.3.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.
ENG.3.3.V2.
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to the 
theme “personal life with (extended) parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather 
conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing”, the teacher 
asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story again. A scanning activity to find out the main details 
of the introductory digital story (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help pupils to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some pictures for the vocabulary about the main components of the 
theme that take place in the story/text (V3.3, V3.4, V13.4, V14.2, V15.2, V18.1, LS5). Pupils circle or tick the 
ones that they have heard, seen and scanned (quickly read) in the story/text. In this way, they will be able 
to understand the story/text in general by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target 
vocabulary items (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then, from the beginning, whenever an item related to 
“personal life” is mentioned, the teacher stops the video and asks a question in the form of two options by 

===== PDF_PAGE_219 =====
219
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
showing their pictures (CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what they are based on the pictures, the scene, and 
the sound, pupils hear the English equivalents of the words for the personal life with (extended) parts of 
the body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons 
and weather conditions; preferences for clothing, and they answer as a whole class. In this way, they are 
introduced to the meaning of the target words (D1.1, V13.4, V14.2, V15.2, V18.1, LS5, CS2.10). This is done in 
the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (SELS2.1) (3) and (8) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.2, V14.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.3.3.V3.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “personal life”, the teacher prepares an activity using the Web 2.0 program with images/
pictures of components of “personal life”. She/He prepares three boxes on one side of the screen and mixed 
images/ pictures for target vocabulary related to the “personal life” on the other side. She/He asks the 
pupils to look at the mixed pile of images/pictures on the Smart Board screen and scan them for a while to 
remember them (CS2.4). She/He asks the pupils to drag the objects about the components of the theme 
into the correct box on the screen. The boxes have the words for each component represented on them with 
symbolic pictures. The pupils are given the cut-out pictures and a large sheet of paper with the pictures of 
empty boxes. The teacher asks them to work in pairs and put the cut-out pictures in the right box and ask 
each other several display questions (CS2.5). When the pupils have finished working with the cut-outs and 
asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the 
Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures as the components of the theme “personal life” 
to the correct empty boxes on the screen (SELS1.2, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant 
to the concept of the theme “personal life” are consolidated through categorisation. The same activity 
can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. To practise 
the meanings of the target words about the school, the teacher places several pictures for them in the 
different parts of the classroom. She/He then puts some flashcards with the target vocabulary for “personal 
life” on the blackboard/whiteboard. She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows it to the pupils. Pupils, 
working in pairs, look at the flashcard, decide which picture on the classroom walls is relevant, they go to the 
picture together, pin the flashcard to the noticeboard and say the word together first in pairs, and then as a 
whole class (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.5). To consolidate the meanings of the new 
vocabulary items for the concept of “personal life”, the teacher could organise several activities in pairs and 
groups with pictures and flashcards such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, etc. (SELS2.2). 
These activities are closed and controlled so that pupils can practise the current (new) vocabulary about the 
current context in the beginning but later they work with simple and easy open-ended and communicative 
activities (D2.5, SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5). This is evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The teacher asks the pupils to 
copy the words in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling using the words written on the model school on the blackboard/
Smart Board (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). This is evaluated as described in items (3) and 
(4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.3.3.G1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS:  To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target language 
chunks about the theme “personal life with (extended) parts of the body and physical features; personal 
characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for 
clothing” (D3.2, V13.4, V14.2, V15.2, V18.1, LS5, CS2.2). While the pupils watch the introductory digital story, 
the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by 
showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the pupils to do the same (CS2.14). She/He could hold up 
large pictures and ask the pupils questions about the pictures with the target chunks expecting the pupils 

===== PDF_PAGE_220 =====
220
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
to ask and answer by using the target chunks. To check the pupils’ identification of the target language 
chunks, the teacher shows some picture strips that she/he has prepared for this activity, using some Web 
2.0 programmes, after the pupils have watched the introductory digital story and imitated the actions and 
said the target language chunks. She/He asks the pupils to listen to her/him saying a target language chunk 
and then to look at the screen and say “Stop!” when they see a scene in the picture strips with the target 
chunk that the teacher has just said (SELS3.1, CS2.7). The teacher stops if the pupils are correct, but not if 
they are not (V3.3, V4.1, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.3.3.G2.
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme “personal life with (extended) parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; 
weather conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing”, 
and writes the appropriate language chunks to be used with each of the groups. She/He also provides the 
vocabulary items on the Smart Board screen. The teacher wants the pupils to think for a while and talk 
with their peers about which target words can be used in which language chunk group (SELS2.2, V3.1, 
V10.3, V13.4, V14.2, V15.2, V18.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.4). Then the pupils go to the board and move the words 
under the correct heading and say the complete sentence with the target words and the chunks. They are 
then asked to say a sentence with the target chunk aloud as a class. Each sentence is repeated after each 
pair. Their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum. The same game can be played with pictures on the blackboard if 
there are technological/technical problems (D2.5). To organise the pupils’ further practice to consolidate the 
target language chunks, the teacher could create some action sequences in context by repeating, saying, 
and acting out with different activity bundles where their learning can be checked as described in items (5), 
(8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (CS2.13). There 
is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Pupils can automatically, spontaneously, 
and naturally select and use the target language chunks in the current context (SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, 
LS5, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  For consolidation of the target language chunks, the teacher can facilitate 
more fun activities and games so that the pupils can practise and consolidate them (V4.4, V7.2).
ENG.3.3.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by using 
language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme which 
is about “personal life with (extended) parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather 
conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” as in other 
themes. Writing activities are arranged according to age and level so they are quite limited and are gradually 
expanded (V3.2, V3.4, V13.4, V14.2, V15.2, V18.1, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.3.3.W2.
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions with 
a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are asked 
to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they get used 
to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written language 
(D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). To further practise guided and copied writing, the teacher gives 
all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2) (of two, three, four etc.) 

===== PDF_PAGE_221 =====
221
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
and to write the names of the vocabulary items “personal life with (extended) parts of the body and physical 
features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; 
preferences for clothing” next to their drawings on the model related to personal life. The teacher asks them 
to look at the Smart Board screen with the model related to personal life that she/he has made earlier so that 
the pupils can easily copy the target words for the items as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.4, V7.3, V13.4, V14.2, V15.2, V18.1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.3.3.W3.
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form of a 
new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/writing 
(copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “personal life” in fun, enjoyable, varied, 
and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, practical, and appropriate to the pupils’ age 
and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.20).
ENG.3.3.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.3.3.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme “personal life with (extended) parts of the body 
and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather 
conditions; preferences for clothing” from simple to more expanded versions in their writing (SELS2.2, 
SELS2.3, V4.2, V13.4, V14.2, V15.1, V15.2, V18.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be 
used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce simple digital 
materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, V11.1, 
LS2, CS2.20). These activities can be evaluated as described in items (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.3.3.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing expression process and asks them to express their  
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15).  Pupils express what they think and feel about 
them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, 
SELS2.2). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and  
collaborative design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.3.3.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language 

===== PDF_PAGE_222 =====
222
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
including the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme 
about “personal life with (extended) parts of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather 
conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” (V3.2, V4.2, 
V13.4, V14.2, V15.2, V18.1, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.3.3.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6). They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.
ENG.3.3.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo/picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).
ENG.3.3.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. To interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “personal life with (extended) parts of the body and 
physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons and weather 
conditions; preferences for clothing” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V11.1, V13.4, V14.2, V15.2, V18.1, LS1, LS4, 
LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings for 
developing their oral skills (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V3.4, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).
ENG.3.3.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:
Pupils communicate with each other by seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target 
words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities 
(SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation 
and revision. These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the 
pupils’ age, interests, and language level. Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively 
and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, 
LS1). Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as 
dialogues, show and tell activities, acting out activities to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar 
in use, and the social language for the theme “personal life” and its components such as “(extended) parts 
of the body and physical features; personal characters; weather conditions; clothing according to seasons 
and weather conditions; preferences for clothing” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V7.2, V13.4, V14.2, V15.2, V18.1, 
LS4, LS5, CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to 
authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items 
(7), (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
Then they can expand their language use and practise by communicating with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_223 =====
223
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.3.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4 CS2.15).  The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To talk about basic body parts in English by using the target vocabulary and target chunks.
Activity 1:  Teacher shows pictures of the body parts and adjectives (neck, shoulders, knees, toes, foot, 
back, tongue, teeth, fingers, chin, blond, curly, straight, round, little, strong, weak, beautiful). Pupils repeat 
each word after the teacher. Teacher divides the class into small groups and each pupil in the groups begins 
to make sentences using the target words and structures. They are asked to use unusual sentences such 
as “I have got three eyes. I have got four fingers”. While each pupil in the group makes these sentences 
in turn, all group members draw according to these sentences. While fun drawings emerge, target words 
and structures are used. Then they reflect on the activity with emoticons. The teacher provides positive 
feedback to encourage them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using 
emoticons.
Supporting
Objective: To talk about basic body parts in English by using the target vocabulary and target chunks.
Activity 2: Teacher shows pictures of the body parts and adjectives (neck, shoulders, knees, toes, foot, 
back, tongue, teeth, fingers, chin, blond, curly, straight, round, little, strong, weak, beautiful). Pupils repeat 
each word after the teacher. Teacher divides the class into small groups and begins to make sentences 
using target words and structures. These sentences can be unusual sentences such as “I have got three 
eyes. I have  got four fingers”. Pupils make their own drawings based on the sentences they hear from the 
teacher. While fun drawings emerge, target words and structures are used. Then they reflect on the activity 
with emoticons. The teacher provides positive feedback to encourage them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts 
and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE.  

===== PDF_PAGE_224 =====
224
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 4: FAMILY LIFE
Sub-themes: Family members; ages of family 
members; daily routines and chores of family 
members; hobbies and abilities of family members 
This theme is centred on the concept of “family life” and covers the sub-themes 
of “family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family 
members; hobbies and abilities of family members”. These components (sub-
themes) are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised 
use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and 
social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed 
to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within 
and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill 
     Values V2. Family Integrity, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, 
V8. Privacy, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, V14. Respect, V15. 
Love and Affection, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_225 =====
225
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Life Study/ Science of Life, Visual Arts, Music, Physical 
Education and Games
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. 
Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, 
CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis 
Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_226 =====
226
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 3 is structured based on holistic approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.3.4.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “family life with family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores 
of family members; hobbies and abilities of family members”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures and context.
ENG.3.4.L2. Pupils can bring information about the current content on “family life with family members; 
ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of 
family members” together with key details and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.3.4.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “family life with family 
members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and 
abilities of family members” through details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age- and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school. 
ENG.3.4.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “family life 
with family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; 
hobbies and abilities of family members” in a very simple way.
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_227 =====
227
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.4.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“family life with family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family 
members; hobbies and abilities of family members” accurately, authentically, and naturally 
through spontaneous selection and using it in an appropriate and effective way when 
communicating with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.3.4.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“family life with family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family 
members; hobbies and abilities of family members”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.3.4.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “family life with family members; 
ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of 
family members” through skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading 
the content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.3.4.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “family life with 
family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; 
hobbies and abilities of family members” by reading it carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it in 
a simple and meaningful way.
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.

===== PDF_PAGE_228 =====
228
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.
ENG.3.4.R4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “family life with family members; 
ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities 
of family members” for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or 
with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.3.4.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “family life with 
family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; 
hobbies and abilities of family members” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and 
naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.3.4.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the current 
content about “family life with family members; ages of family members; daily routines and 
chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of family members” accurately, authentically, 
spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating 
with others.
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.

===== PDF_PAGE_229 =====
229
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically 
and by pointing.
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.3.4.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “family 
life with family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family 
members; hobbies and abilities of family members” in an age- and level-appropriate way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.3.4.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on “family 
life with family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family 
members; hobbies and abilities of family members” based on the model/example provided to 
practise for further writing activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.3.4.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“family life with family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family 
members; hobbies and abilities of family members” based on the model/example provided.
a) Pupils organise a very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.3.4.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the 
current content “family life with family members; ages of family members; daily routines and 
chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of family members”.
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 
ENG.3.4.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks about 
the “family life with family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of 
family members; hobbies and abilities of family members” to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully and individually reorganising it.

===== PDF_PAGE_230 =====
230
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.
ENG.3.4.W6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “family life with family members; ages of 
family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of family 
members” very simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/
or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.3.4.S1.  Pupils can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “family life 
with family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; 
hobbies and abilities of family members” with the help of supplementary audio-visual materials.
a) Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and imitation after 
completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used during the 
initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current content.
ENG.3.4.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme 
on “family life with family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of 
family members; hobbies and abilities of family members”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.3.4.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “family life with family members; ages of 
family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of family 
members” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.
ENG.3.4.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “family life with family members; ages of 
family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of family 
members” through reconstruction by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.

===== PDF_PAGE_231 =====
231
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.4.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “family life with family 
members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and 
abilities of family members” by reconstructing it to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.
b) Pupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.
ENG.3.4.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “family life with family members; ages of 
family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of family 
members” very simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/
or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_232 =====
232
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
FAMILY LIFE:
Sub-themes: Family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; 
hobbies and abilities of family members
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Family members: A cousin, an aunt, an uncle, a parent, a grandparent, a grandson, a granddaughter, a girl, a 
boy, a child, children, a man, men, a woman, women, dad, mum (mom-AmE.), a kid.
Daily routines: To wake up, to wash face, to brush teeth, to put on (a dress), to have breakfast, to go to school, 
to work, to study, to have lunch, to go home, to have dinner, to watch TV, to read a book, to play games, to do 
homework, to go to bed.
Hobbies: To swim, to play basketball/football, to play the guitar/piano/violin, to play chess.
Chores /housework: To cook, to prepare, to clean, to iron, to wash (the dishes), to make (the bed), to help 
(mother/family/ etc.), to put the garbage  out (to take out the trash-AmE.).
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Language Chunks in Use: 
Language Chunks:  (“To be Present”): (How old is your mother? She’s/is thirty-five years old. Is this her 
birthday today? Yes, it’s/is her birthday today).
Function: Asking and answering about ages, birthdays and celebrations.
Language Chunks: (“The Simple Present Tense”): (What does she do every morning? She prepares breakfast 
every morning. What do you do at home? I clean my room every morning).
Function: Describing habitual actions and routines. 
Language Chunks: (“Can/can’t”): (My father can cook. My father can’t cook)
Function: Describing ability for personal life.
Language Chunks: (“Could”): (Could you help me, please?)
Function: Asking for requests.
Question word: How often?
Function: Asking about frequency of actions. 
Adverbs of time: Every, sometimes, always, often, never.
Function: Indicating the frequency of actions or events.
Adverbs of manner: Well
Function: Describing how an action is performed. 
Conjunctions: But
Function: Connecting contrasting ideas or statements. 
Target Social Language in Use:
Can I have some water, please?
Let’s eat together!
That’s so cool.
Do me a favour!
Give me a hand!

===== PDF_PAGE_233 =====
233
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
No problem!
I hope you will…..
It’s my pleasure!
Follow me!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Vowel: o
Consonants: k, l, m, n, p
Vowel: o: (/əʊ/, /ɒ/, )
Consonants:  k: (/k/); l: (/ɛl/ /l/); m; (/ɛm/,/m/);  n: (/ɛn/, /n/); p: (piː//p/)
*No pronunciation symbols will be provided in any material written for the pupils, only the sounds in the 
words including them will be practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations 
The concept of “family life” is present in almost all languages because it is one of the most basic parts of human 
beings’ lives and almost all children in different parts of the world have families. People who start to learn a 
new language bring with them their previous/pre-existing knowledge and transfer it to their new language 
learning. So, a primary school pupil in year 3 will know what “a family and family life” mean as a concept but 
will not know its equivalents in another language if it has not been covered in their existing foreign language 
curriculum . However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, 
and learn it more easily in a foreign language, English in this case.
Key Concepts:
Ages, routines, chores, daily routines and chores, hobbies, abilities, members, family, family members, ages 
of family members, daily routines of family members, chores of family members, daily routines and chores 
of family members, hobbies of family members, abilities of family members, hobbies and abilities of family 
members.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Pupils will write a project about “Family Life” to share details about their 
family members and daily routines. In their project, they will write about four things: family members and 
their physical features, daily routines, hobbies and interests, and chores. First, they will introduce their family 
members, such as their parents, siblings, or extended family like grandparents or cousins. They will describe 
each family member using descriptive words, such as their height, hair colour, or special traits. Next, they 
will write about the daily routines of at least three family members. For example, they can describe what 
time someone wakes up, goes to school or work, and other activities like having meals or watching TV. Then, 
they will talk about their family’s hobbies and interests. For example, a family member might enjoy playing 
basketball, cooking, or playing a musical instrument. Finally, they will describe the chores different family 
members do at home, such as cooking, washing dishes, or taking out the garbage. They can draw pictures, 
create a family tree, or add stickers to make their project more creative. When their project is ready, they 
will present it to the class and talk about their family. The class will rate the presentations through the rating 
scales or checklists given by the teacher.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of the “family life” with its components such as “family 
members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of 
family members” in their own language. As the pupils are 8-year-old primary school children, they can know 
what family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and 
abilities of family members mean in their own language and to be able to express them in their own language. 

===== PDF_PAGE_234 =====
234
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
However, they would not know them in a foreign language, in this case English, if they were not covered in 
their existing school curriculum. This knowledge in their own language would prepare them to identify the 
same concepts in their foreign language, English, without speaking any Turkish. It is assumed that they have 
learnt how to ask what things are and how to introduce them using language chunks such as “How old is your 
mother? She’s/is thirty-five years old. Is this her birthday today? Yes, it’s/is her birthday today. What does 
she do every morning? She prepares breakfast every morning. What do you do at home? I clean my room 
every morning” in English from the previous themes and/or year. These chunks can be used as a basis for 
learning the new language chunks in the current theme making the new chunks easier to learn. This can be 
an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to a song/chant/rhyme and so on which will not 
require any English knowledge and also there will not be a need to speak Turkish.
Pre-Evaluation Process
It is expected that pupils’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about “family life” as a concept in English. Some previous themes from previous years would be 
helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “family members; ages 
of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of family members”. 
Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise “family life, family members; ages of family members; daily 
routines and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of family members” they learnt before. Some 
language chunks such as “Can I have some water, please? Let’s eat together! That’s so cool. Do me a favour! 
Give me a hand! No problem!” are also revised by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In 
this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are 
able to understand and use previously learnt vocabulary and language chunks to build their competence in 
the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge 
and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated 
by rubrics and/or checklists.)
Establishing Links
Pupils are asked to recall the current (theme) concept of “family life” and its components such as “family 
members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of 
family members”, by remembering their previous/pre-existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively 
through thinking) in their own language to make links with the current activities in the theme in English 
without translating anything until they start learning the target words in the current concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept 
various visual materials such as a short digital cartoon, a picture, a poster can be prepared and shown (it 
can be a paper picture format if there are technological problems) before the main teaching/learning flow of 
the lesson begins. The pupils are facilitated through the materials they have learnt the concept of it in the 
previous years with various activities. Then they are asked in simple English what was it about. They get help 
from the teacher to be able remember and say. For example the teacher could show the pictures with the 
words next to them so that pupils can remember some vocabulary and language chunks from the previous 
years. The teacher asks them to wait until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the introductory digital story, without asking any further questions.
One of the example practices could be to point correctly to a picture of the current concept in it when they 
are given instructions by the teacher in simple English.  Pupils give responses by pointing out relevant so-
called pictures without speaking any Turkish but only in very simple English or with mimics and gestures.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about the current theme (in their minds) 
in their own language and the present information about the concept through meaningful contextualised 
activities with visuals within the theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_235 =====
235
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME FOR WELL-BEING
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive 
and ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as 
playing a short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, 
saying a tongue twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require 
any knowledge of English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. This is done only for fun and relaxation  
(D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing-expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills. 
ENG.3.4.L1
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current 
theme during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “family life” in their minds, so a further 
concept check would help them prepare for the current theme  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, CS2.11, CS2.16.2) . 
For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and show a cardboard model of a school and sets 
of pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the pupils to point to the pictures in or on the 
model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context of the theme, the introductory digital story, 
that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.8).  For each theme, a digitally constructed 
story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through the theme 
to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of 
the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. (A 
3-D model of family life can also be created using Web 2.0 programmes. They can guess the sub-concepts 
of family life, so they can easily understand that the current theme will be “family life” (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, 
SELS1.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17). 
ENG.3.4.L2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “family life with 
(extended) family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies 
and abilities of family members” as a whole, without stopping the video at any point, so that the pupils can 
understand the theme/topic holistically (D3.2, SELS1.1,  V2.1, V2.4, V3.3, V8.3, V15.2, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.14, CS2.16.2).

===== PDF_PAGE_236 =====
236
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.4.L3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to 
the content about family life and its relevant components, some pictures are brought into the classroom by 
the teacher. The teacher brings necessary number of large boxes for the pictures (some symbols are stuck 
on the boxes for family life with (extended) family members; ages of family members; daily routines and 
chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of family members) and puts the boxes on the table. She/He 
puts the corresponding picture into the related box when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
introductory digital story without stopping the video while the pupils watch the story (V2.1, V2.4, V3.3, V8.3, 
V15.2, LS1, LS5). When they have watched the whole story, the teacher shows the items in the boxes on the 
table and asks some simple display questions about it. In this way, the teacher could carry out a monologue 
and also engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the theme as a whole 
through its components, which can be used to check their learning as described in item (8) in the section 
“Indicators for Learning (D1.2, D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, V6.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8).
After watching the introductory digital story, the teacher takes all the pictures out of the boxes and puts 
them back on the table again and says the word “family life” several times aloud, and the pupils repeat after 
her/him. In this way, the main vocabulary of the theme “family life” is introduced to the pupils in English. 
To remember the sequence of the scenes with the parts, places, and people in the “family life” in the 
introductory digital story, the teacher shows the mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board 
and asks the pupils to look at the images/pictures of these scenes for a while (CS2.3). She/he then asks them 
to order the scenes in pairs with the mixed paper pictures she has already given to the pupils (SELS2.2, V3.4, 
V4.2, LS1, LS2). When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for scenes of the story, the teacher asks 
the pupils to take turns or volunteer to order the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board (or the pictures 
on the blackboard (SELS1.2, V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10) . This will help the teacher organise the 
story as a whole so that the pupils can identify the main theme and the components of the theme through 
their memories (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, CS2.12).
ENG.3.4.L4
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (CS2.15).Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2,  V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3). 
ENG.3.4.P1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “family life with (extended) family 
members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of 
family members”, the teacher puts on the table the pictures and boxes that she has previously used. She/
He holds up each picture and asks the pupils to repeat each word aloud a few times as a whole class after 
listening to the recordings she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes. She/He puts 
the picture in the correct box about the group corresponding to the word while repeating the words with the 
whole class (V2.1, V2.4, V3.4, V8.3, V15.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer variations with 
some techniques, such as showing the picture of the target words about school to the pupils to say the word 
or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the recording, and then both. To help 
the pupils pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few 
times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then 
again as volunteers, using the shadow technique, in which pupils immediately repeat whatever the teacher 
is saying or the story, without pausing (D1.3, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V3.4, V7.1, LS2 CS2.14). 

===== PDF_PAGE_237 =====
237
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.4.P2
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended 
with different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for the school and its 
components, the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts them out, the pupils repeat 
after her/him (SELS2.1, CS2.6) . Then the teacher and the pupils say the target words and act them out 
together at the same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts them out (V3.4, V4.2, V15.1, 
LS4). These “family life”-related actions can be done through the actions which can be done in the school, 
but they are only used for acting without teaching them as verbs in English. For instance, they can pretend 
to do things according to the topic. As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, 
sadly, angrily etc. using different tones of voice through TPR techniques (SELS2.3, V11.1, V12.2, LS5, CS2.9). 
Then some groups of pupils say the words, some groups of pupils act them out. While doing the repetitions, 
they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom. Some action 
sequences are also created through which the pupils can practise the social language expressions of the 
theme in a fun way by repeating, pointing, and miming in several games. Several fun pronunciation games 
could be played, such as Simon says, where pupils whisper a target word into the ears of their peers forming 
a chain and the last person says it aloud and the class checks if the word is pronounced correctly or not 
(D2.5, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, V6.2, LS6, CS2.12). Their learning is evaluated as described in items (1) 
and (2) in the section “Indicators for Learning”.
ENG.3.4.R1 
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS: The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract 
from the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading 
sections of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are 
limited reading texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and 
speed reading are used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading 
for detail are used in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases are used 
in a simplified and age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend and 
help talk/write about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language and 
communicative competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3).
For the initial stage of reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written 
elements (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of 
the contextual introductory story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be 
used for skimming to recall the conceptual meanings they already have about the theme on “family life 
with (extended) family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; 
hobbies and abilities of family members” (V2.1, V2.4, V3.3, V8.3, V15.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.8). At this stage, 
the teacher could ask the pupils to read the title/heading of the content and ask the pupils which words 
they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title by showing them a list of words and 
corresponding pictures to choose the ones they know (SELS1.1, V3.4, LS1,CS2.16.2). She/He reminds them 
not to ask for the meanings of new words or the words they do not know. She/He reminds them that this is 
only a recalling activity to check the words they know and that there will be time to work on the new words of 
the new theme later (D3.2, D3.6, V12.1, CS2.10, CS2.12).
ENG.3.4.R2 
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 3-D 
house model of “family life” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each item, the written form of the word is 
provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words first silently. The teacher then points 

===== PDF_PAGE_238 =====
238
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole class. Then she/he invites volunteers 
to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of the class read them aloud as a chorus 
(D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.12). 
ENG.3.4.R3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version of 
the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/smartboard. She/he asks 
the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones (SELS2.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14). From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used to 
understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “family life with (extended) family members; ages 
of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of family members” 
(SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V2.1, V2.4, V8.3, V15.2, LS5). During this process pupils work collaboratively to exchange 
information, thoughts, and feelings (SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.6). This is evaluated as described in items (6), (7), (8), 
and (9) in the section “Indicators for Learning”.
ENG.3.4.R4
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1) . The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3). 
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4) . As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.
ENG.3.4.V1
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to the 
theme “family life with (extended) family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family 
members; hobbies and abilities of family members”, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory 
digital story again. A scanning activity to find out the main details of the introductory digital story (and/or a 
new text in the reading section) is organised to help pupils to know more about the content. This could help 
them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The activity could be designed by listing 
some pictures for the vocabulary about the main components of the theme that take place in the story/
text (V2.1, V2.4, V3.3, V3.4, V8.3, V15.2, LS5) . Pupils circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen and 
scanned (quickly read) in the story/text. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general 
by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items (D3.2, D3.6,CS2.4, 
CS2.6, CS2.7). Then, from the beginning, whenever an item related to “family life” is mentioned, the teacher 
stops the video and asks a question in the form of two options by showing their pictures (CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By 
guessing what they are based on the pictures, the scene, and the sound, pupils hear the English equivalents 
of the words for the family life with (extended) family members; ages of family members; daily routines and 
chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of family members, and they answer as a whole class. In this 
way, they are introduced to the meaning of the target words (D1.1, V2.1, V2.4, V8.3, V15.2, LS5, CS2.10). This 

===== PDF_PAGE_239 =====
239
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
is done in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (SELS2.1) (3) and 
(8) in the section “Indicators for learning” (V4.2, V14.1, LS1, LS2, LS4). 
ENG.3.4.V2
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “school”, the teacher prepares an activity using the Web 2.0 program with images/
pictures of components of “family life”. She/He prepares three boxes on one side of the screen and mixed 
images/pictures for target vocabulary related to the theme “family life” on the other side. She/He asks the 
pupils to look at the mixed pile of images/pictures on the Smart Board screen and scan them for a while to 
remember them (CS2.4).  She/He asks the pupils to drag the objects about the components of the theme 
into the correct box on the screen. The boxes have the words for each component represented on them with 
symbolic pictures. The pupils are given the cut-out pictures and a large sheet of paper with the pictures of 
empty boxes. The teacher asks them to work in pairs and put the cut-out pictures in the right box and ask 
each other several display questions (CS2.5).  When the pupils have finished working with the cut-outs and 
asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the 
Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures as the components of the theme “school” to the 
correct empty boxes on the screen (SELS1.2, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the 
concept of “family life” are consolidated through categorisation. The same activity can be done with real 
pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. To practise the meanings of the 
target words about the school, the teacher places several pictures for them in the different parts of the 
classroom. She/He then puts some flashcards with the target vocabulary for “family life” on the blackboard/
whiteboard. She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows it to the pupils. Pupils, working in pairs, look at 
the flashcard, decide which picture on the classroom walls is relevant, they go to the picture together, pin 
the flashcard to the noticeboard and say the word together first in pairs, and then as a whole class (SELS2.1, 
SELS2.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.5) . To consolidate the meanings of the new vocabulary items for 
the concept of “school”, the teacher could organise several activities in pairs and groups with pictures and 
flashcards such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, Simon Says etc. (SELS2.2). These activities 
are closed and controlled so that pupils can practise the current (new) vocabulary about the current context 
in the beginning but later they work with simple and easy open-ended and communicative activities (D2.5, 
SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5) . This is evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in the section 
“Indicators for learning”.
The teacher asks the pupils to copy the words in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange 
their picture dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling using the words written on 
the model school on the blackboard/smartboard (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4) . This is 
evaluated as described in items (3) and (4) in the section “Indicators for Learning”. 
ENG.3.4.G1  
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS:  To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target language 
chunks about the theme “family life with (extended) family members; ages of family members; daily routines 
and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of family members” (D3.2, V2.1, V2.4, V8.3, V15.2, LS5, 
CS2.2). While the pupils watch the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the 
target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and 
asking the pupils to do the same (CS2.14).  She could hold up large pictures and ask the pupils questions 
about the pictures with the target chunks expecting the pupils to ask and answer by using the target chunks.  
To check the pupils’ identification of the target language chunks, the teacher shows some picture strips 
that she/he has prepared for this activity, using some Web 2.0 programmes, after the pupils have watched 
the introductory digital story and imitated the actions and said the target language chunks. She/He asks the 
pupils to listen to her/him saying a target language chunk and then to look at the screen and say “Stop!” when 
they see a scene in the picture strips with the target chunk that the teacher has just said (SELS3.1, CS2.7). 
The teacher stops if the pupils are correct, but not if they are not (V3.3, V4.1, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4). 

===== PDF_PAGE_240 =====
240
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.4.G2  
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme, “family life with (extended) family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores 
of family members; hobbies and abilities of family members”, and writes the appropriate language chunks to 
be used with each of the groups. She/He also provides the vocabulary items on the Smart Board screen. The 
teacher wants the pupils to think for a while and talk with their peers about which target words can be used 
in which language chunk group (SELS2.2, V2.1, V2.4, V3.1, V8.3, V10.3, V15.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.4). Then the 
pupils go to the board and move the words under the correct heading and say the complete sentence with 
the target words and the chunks. They are then asked to say a sentence with the target chunk aloud as a 
class. Each sentence is repeated after each pair. Their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), 
and (9) in the section “Indicators for Learning”. The same game can be played with pictures on the blackboard 
if there are technological/technical problems (D2.5).  To organise the pupils’ further practice to consolidate 
the target language chunks, the teacher could create some action sequences in context by repeating, 
saying, and acting out with different activity bundles where their learning can be checked as described in 
items (5), (8), (9), and (10) in the section “Indicators for learning” (CS2.13). There is no analysis or teaching of 
grammatical structures at this stage. Pupils can automatically, spontaneously, and naturally select and use 
the target language chunks in the current context (SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, LS5, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2) . 
For consolidation of the target language chunks, the teacher can facilitate more fun activities and games so 
that the pupils can practise and consolidate them (V4.4, V7.2). 
ENG.3.4.W1
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by using 
language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme which 
is about “family life with (extended) family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of 
family members; hobbies and abilities of family members” as in other themes. Writing activities are arranged 
according to age and level so they are quite limited and are gradually expanded (V2.1, V2.4, V3.2, V3.4, V8.3, 
V15.2, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.3.4.W2
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions with 
a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are asked 
to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they get used 
to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written language 
(D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). To further practise guided and copied writing, the teacher gives 
all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model school in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2) (of two, three, four 
etc.) and to write the names of the vocabulary items about “family life with (extended) family members; ages 
of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of family members” 
next to their drawings on the model related to family life. The teacher asks them to look at the Smart Board 
screen with the model related to family life that she/he has made earlier so that the pupils can easily copy 
the target words for the items as described in item (3) in the section “Indicators for Learning” (V2.1, V2.4, 
V4.4, V7.3, V8.3, V15.2, LS4, LS5). 

===== PDF_PAGE_241 =====
241
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.4.W3
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form of a 
new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/writing 
(copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “family life” in fun, enjoyable, varied, 
and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, practical, and appropriate to the pupils’ age 
and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.20). 
ENG.3.4.W4
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13) . All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.3.4.W5
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme “family life with (extended) family members; ages 
of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of family members” 
from simple to more expanded versions in their writing (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V2.1, V2.4, V4.2, V8.3, V15.1, 
V15.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20) AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access 
to authentic materials. They can also produce simple digital materials and projects at school and at home in 
a variety of ways (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20). These activities can be evaluated as 
described in items (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section “Indicators for Learning”. 
ENG.3.4.W6
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15). Pupils express what they think and feel about them. 
Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, SELS2.2). The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.3.4.S1
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme about “family 
life with (extended) family members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; 
hobbies and abilities of family members” (V2.1, V2.4, V3.2, V4.2, V8.3, V15.2, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.3.4.S2
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6).  They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.

===== PDF_PAGE_242 =====
242
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.4.S3
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo-picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).
ENG.3.4.S4
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. to interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “family life with (extended) family members; ages of 
family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of family members” 
(SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V2.1, V2.4, V4.2, V8.3, V11.1, V15.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20) . AI-based technologies can 
be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital 
materials and projects at school and at home through recordings for developing their oral skills  (D1.2, D1.6, 
D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V3.4, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).
ENG.3.4.S5 
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: 
Pupils communicate with each other by seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target 
words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities 
(SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation 
and revision. These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the 
pupils’ age, interests, and language level. Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively 
and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, 
LS1). Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as 
dialogues, show and tell activities, acting out activities to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar 
in use, and the social language for the theme “school life” and its components such as “(extended) family 
members; ages of family members; daily routines and chores of family members; hobbies and abilities of 
family members” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V2.1, V2.4, V4.2, V7.2, V8.3, V15.2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based 
technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also 
produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, 
SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20) . These are evaluated as described in items (7), (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the 
section “Indicators for Learning”. Then they can expand their language use and practise by communicating 
with others.
ENG.3.4.S6
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4 CS2.15) . The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_243 =====
243
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To talk about family members and physical appearances in English by using the target vocabulary 
and target chunks.  
Activity 1:  The teacher hangs the flashcards of the family members and physical characteristics in two 
separate groups on the board. After hanging them on the board, the teacher says each word in a normal 
voice and asks the pupils to repeat it. In the next round, if she/he whispers the word, she/he asks the pupils 
to repeat it loudly, and if she/he says it loudly, she/he asks them to repeat it in a whisper. When the word 
repetitions are completed, she/he asks one of the pupils to come to the board and throw the ball first to the 
family member pictures and then to the pictures related to physical appearances. She/He asks the pupil to 
make sentences about the words that the ball lands on.  Example: “My cousin is young”. Then they reflect on 
the activity by clapping loudly or softly. The teacher provides positive feedback to encourage them. Pupils 
reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
Supporting
Objective: To talk about family members and physical appearances in English by using the target vocabulary 
and target chunks.
Activity 2:  The teacher hangs the flashcards of the family members and physical characteristics in two 
separate groups on the board. After hanging them on the board, the teacher says each word in a normal 
voice and asks the pupils to repeat it. In the next round, if she/he whispers the word, she/he asks the pupils 
to repeat it loudly, and if she/he says it loudly, she/he asks them to repeat it in a whisper. When the word 
repetitions are completed, she/he asks one of the pupils to come to the board and throw the ball first to the 
family member pictures and then to the pictures related to physical appearances. She/He asks the pupil to 
say the words that the ball lands on.  Example: “cousin”  “young”. Then they reflect on the activity by clapping 
loudly or softly. The teacher provides positive feedback to encourage them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts 
and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE.  

===== PDF_PAGE_244 =====
244
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 5: HOMES & HOUSES & THE NEIGHBOURHOOD
Sub-themes: Life in the countryside; farmhouses and 
farm animals; activities and chores on a farm
This theme is centred on the concept of “homes, houses and the neighbourhood” 
and covers the sub-themes of “life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm 
animals; activities and chores on a farm”. These components (sub-themes) 
are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised use of 
target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and social 
language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed to 
be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within 
and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3.  Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill 
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, 
V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, V14. Respect, V15. Love and 
Affection, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_245 =====
245
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Life Study/ Science of Life, Visual Arts, Music, Physical 
Education and Games
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. 
Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, 
CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis 
Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_246 =====
246
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 3 is structured based on holistic approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.3.5.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “homes, houses and the neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses 
and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures and context.
ENG.3.5.L2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “homes, houses and the 
neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and 
chores on a farm” together with key details and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.3.5.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “homes, houses and 
the neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and 
chores on a farm” through details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age- and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school.
ENG.3.5.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “homes, 
houses and the neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; 
activities and chores on a farm” in a very simple way.
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_247 =====
247
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.5.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“homes, houses and the neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm 
animals; activities and chores on a farm” accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous selection and using it in an appropriate and effective way when communicating 
with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.3.5.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“homes, houses and the neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm 
animals; activities and chores on a farm”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.3.5.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “homes, houses and the 
neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and 
chores on a farm” through skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading 
the content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.3.5.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “homes, houses 
and the neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities 
and chores on a farm” by reading it carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it 
in a simple and meaningful way.
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.

===== PDF_PAGE_248 =====
248
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.
ENG.3.5.R4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the reading-
comprehension process about the current content, “homes, houses and the neighbourhood 
with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm” for 
reflection in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.3.5.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “homes, houses 
and the neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities 
and chores on a farm” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it 
appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.3.5.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the current 
content about “homes, houses and the neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses 
and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, 
and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.

===== PDF_PAGE_249 =====
249
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically 
and by pointing.
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.3.5.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “homes, 
houses and the neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; 
activities and chores on a farm” in an age- and level-appropriate way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.3.5.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on “homes, 
houses and the neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; 
activities and chores on a farm” based on the model/example provided to practise for further 
writing activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.3.5.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“homes, houses and the neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm 
animals; activities and chores on a farm” based on the model/example provided.
a) Pupils organise a very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.3.5.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “homes, houses and the neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and 
farm animals; activities and chores on a farm”.
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 
ENG.3.5.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks about 
the “homes, houses and the neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm 
animals; activities and chores on a farm” to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully and individually reorganising it.

===== PDF_PAGE_250 =====
250
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.
ENG.3.5.W6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “homes, houses and the neighbourhood with 
life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm” very 
simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.3.5.S1.  Pupils can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “homes, 
houses and the neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; 
activities and chores on a farm” with the help of supplementary audio-visual materials.
a) Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and imitation after 
completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used during the 
initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current content.
ENG.3.5.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme 
on “homes, houses and the neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm 
animals; activities and chores on a farm”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.3.5.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “homes, houses and the neighbourhood 
with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm” by 
speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.
ENG.3.5.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “homes, houses and the neighbourhood with 
life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm” through 
reconstruction by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.

===== PDF_PAGE_251 =====
251
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.5.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “homes, houses and 
the neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and 
chores on a farm” by reconstructing it to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.
b) EPupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.
ENG.3.5.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “homes, houses and the neighbourhood with 
life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm” very 
simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_252 =====
252
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
HOMES, HOUSES & THE NEIGHBOURHOOD:
Sub-themes: Life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Farm animals: A cow, a donkey, chicken(hen), a goat, a horse, a sheep, a duck, a turkey, a rabbit.
Vocabulary for the house types in the countryside: A farmhouse, a cottage, a barn.
Vocabulary for the countryside: A village, a farm, a field, a tractor, grass, a plant.
Activities/chores on a farm: To feed (animals), to bake, to water (flowers, vegetables, plants), to milk (cows), 
to garden, to plant (trees, vegetables, flowers), to grow (plants, vegetables, flowers), to collect (eggs).
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations:  “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Language Chunks in Use: 
Language Chunks (“There is/There are”): (What is there on your farm? There’s/is a farmhouse on our farm). 
(How many cows are there on your farm? There are five cows on our farm).
Function: Describing existence and quantity of objects or entities in a specific location. 
Language Chunks (“The Simple Present Tense”): (What do you do on your farm every day? I milk our cows 
every day).
Function: Describing habitual actions or routines.     
Language Chunks (“The Present Progressive Tense”): (What is the farmer doing now? He’s/is watering the 
vegetables now). 
Function: Describing actions happening at the moment of speaking. 
Adverbs of time: Now, at present, today
Target Social Language in Use:
No way!
No idea.
Fantastic!
Help me!
Why not?
What a surprise!
How beautiful!
Let me…
Cute!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Consonants:  q, r, s, t, v
Consonants: q: /kjuː/;  r: /ɑː/(Br), /r/ (AmE.);  s: (/s/, /ɛs/, /z/);  t: (/tiː/, /t/); v: (/viː/, /v/)
*No pronunciation symbols will be provided in any material written for the pupils, only the sounds in the 
words including them will be practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_253 =====
253
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations 
The concept of “homes, houses and the neighbourhood” is present in almost all languages because it is one 
of the most basic parts of human beings’ lives and all children in different parts of the world. People who start 
to learn a new language bring with them their previous/pre-existing knowledge and transfer it to their new 
language learning. So, a primary school pupil in year 3 will know what “homes, houses and the neighbourhood” 
mean as a concept but will not know its equivalents in another language if it has not been covered in their 
existing foreign language curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them 
recognise, understand, and learn it more easily in a foreign language, English in this case.
Key Concepts:
Farmhouses, animals, farm animals, activities, chores, farm, activities and chores on a farm, countryside, 
life, life in the countryside.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Pupils will create a brochure about “Homes, Houses & The Neighbourhood” 
with a focus on life in the countryside. In their brochure, they will describe different types of houses such 
as farmhouses, cottages, and barns, explaining their features and the rural setting around them very simply 
with pictures and drawings.. They will also simply write about various farm animals like cows, chickens, and 
goats, detailing their appearance and roles on the farm. The brochure will include very simple information 
on common farm activities such as feeding animals, milking cows, and planting vegetables, as well as daily 
chores like watering plants and collecting eggs. To make the brochure visually appealing, pupils will include 
illustrations or images representing these elements of farm life. Finally, they will present their brochure to 
the class, sharing their knowledge of the countryside and its way of life. The class will rate the presentations 
through the rating scales or checklists given by the teacher.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of homes, houses & the neighbourhood with its components 
such as “life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm” in their own 
language. As the pupils are 8-year-old primary school children, they can know what life in the countryside; 
farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm mean in their own language and to be able to 
express them in their own language. However, they would not know them in a foreign language, in this case 
English, if they were not covered in their existing school curriculum. This knowledge in their own language 
would prepare them to identify the same concepts in their foreign language, English, without speaking any 
Turkish. It is assumed that they have learnt how to ask what things are and how to introduce them using 
language chunks such as “What is there on your farm? There’s/is a farmhouse on our farm. How many cows 
are there on your farm? There are five cows on our farm. What do you do on your farm every day? I milk our 
cows every day. What is the farmer doing now? He’s/is watering the vegetables now” in English from the 
previous themes and/or year. These chunks can be used as a basis for learning the new language chunks in 
the current theme making the new chunks easier to learn. This can be an activity such as a short game, a 
physical activity, listening to a song/chant/rhyme and so on which will not require any English knowledge and 
also there will not be a need to speak Turkish.
Pre-Evaluation Process
It is expected that pupils’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about “homes, houses and the neighbourhood” as a concept in English. Some previous themes from 
previous years would be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of 
“life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm”. Therefore, a dialogue 

===== PDF_PAGE_254 =====
254
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
game can be played to revise “homes, houses and the neighbourhood, life in the countryside; farmhouses 
and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm” they learnt before. Some language chunks such as “No 
way!No idea. Fantastic! Help me! Why not? What a surprise? How beautiful!” are also revised by giving 
instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing 
how much they remember and how much they are able to understand and use previously learnt vocabulary 
and language chunks to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise 
or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the 
current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics and/or checklists.)
Establishing Links
Pupils are asked to recall the current (theme) concept of “homes and houses and the neighbourhood” and 
its components such as “life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a 
farm”, by remembering their previous/pre-existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through 
thinking) in their own language to make links with the current activities in the theme in English without 
translating anything until they start learning the target words in the current concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept 
various visual materials such as a short digital cartoon, a picture, a poster can be prepared and shown (it 
can be a paper picture format if there are technological problems) before the main teaching/learning flow of 
the lesson begins. The pupils are facilitated through the materials they have learnt the concept of it in the 
previous years with various activities. Then they are asked in simple English what was it about. They get help 
from the teacher to be able remember and say. For example the teacher could show the pictures with the 
words next to them so that pupils can remember some vocabulary and language chunks from the previous 
years. The teacher asks them to wait until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the introductory digital story, without asking any further questions.
One of the example practices could be to point correctly to a picture of the current concept in it when they 
are given instructions by the teacher in simple English.  Pupils give responses by pointing out relevant so-
called pictures without speaking any Turkish but only in very simple English or with mimics and gestures.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about the current theme (in their minds) 
in their own language and the present information about the concept through meaningful contextualised 
activities with visuals within the theme.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME FOR WELL-BEING
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive and 
ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as playing a 
short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, saying a tongue 
twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of 
English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 

===== PDF_PAGE_255 =====
255
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG.3.5.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current theme 
during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “homes, houses and the neighbourhood” 
in their minds, so a further concept check would help them prepare for the current theme (D3.2, SELS1.1, 
V3.2, LS1, CS2.11, CS2.16.2). For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and show a card model 
of a school and sets of pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the pupils to point to 
the pictures in or on the model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context of the theme, 
the introductory digital story, that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.8) . For 
each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several 
times while going through the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language 
expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main context to 
the whole theme at the same time. (A 3-D model of homes, houses and neighbourhood can also be created 
using Web 2.0 programmes.) They can guess the sub-concepts of homes, houses and neighbourhood, so 
they can easily understand that the current theme will be “homes, houses and neighbourhood” (D1.2, D1.6, 
D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17).
ENG.3.5.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “homes, houses 
and neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a 
farm” as a whole, without stopping the video at any point, so that the pupils can understand the theme/topic 
holistically (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.3, V5.2, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.14, CS2.16.2).
ENG.3.5.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to the 
content about homes, houses and neighbourhood and its relevant components, some pictures are brought 
into the classroom by the teacher. The teacher brings a necessary number of large boxes for the pictures 
(some symbols are stuck on the boxes for homes, houses and neighbourhood with life in the countryside; 
farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm) and puts the boxes on the table. She/He 
puts the corresponding picture into the related box when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in 
the introductory digital story without stopping the video while the pupils watch the story (V3.3, V5.2, LS1, 
LS5). When they have watched the whole story, the teacher shows the items in the boxes on the table and 
asks some simple display questions about it. In this way, the teacher could carry out a monologue and 
also engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the theme as a whole 
through its components, which can be used to check their learning as described in item (8) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, V6.1, LS2, LS4, 
CS2.8). After watching the introductory digital story, the teacher takes all the pictures out of the boxes and 
puts them back on the table again and says the word “homes, houses and neighbourhood” several times 
aloud, and the pupils repeat after her/him. In this way, the main vocabulary of the theme “homes, houses 
and neighbourhood” is introduced to the pupils in English. To remember the sequence of the scenes with 
the parts, places, and people in the “homes, houses and neighbourhood” in the introductory digital story, the 
teacher shows the mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the pupils to look at 
the images/ pictures of these scenes for a while (CS2.3). She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs 
with the mixed paper pictures she has already given to the pupils (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2). When the 
pairs have finished sorting the pictures for scenes of the story, the teacher asks the pupils to take turns or 
volunteer to order the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board (or the pictures on the blackboard (SELS1.2, 

===== PDF_PAGE_256 =====
256
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10).  This will help the teacher organise the story as a whole so that the 
pupils can identify the main theme and the components of the theme through their memories (D1.2, D1.6, 
D2.3, CS2.12).
ENG.3.5.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3).
ENG.3.5.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “homes, houses and neighbourhood 
with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm”, the teacher 
puts on the table the pictures and boxes that she/he has previously used. She/He holds up each picture and 
asks the pupils to repeat each word aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to the recordings she/
he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes. She/He puts the picture in the correct box 
about the group corresponding to the word while repeating the words with the whole class (V3.4, V5.2, LS1, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer variations with some techniques, such as showing the picture 
of the target words about homes, houses and neighbourhood to the pupils to say the word or pointing to 
the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the recording, and then both. To help the pupils 
pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as 
a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then again as 
volunteers, using the shadow technique, in which pupils immediately repeat whatever the teacher is saying 
or the story, without pausing (D1.3, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V3.4, V7.1, LS2, CS2.14).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended with 
different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for the homes, houses and 
neighbourhood and its components, the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts them 
out, the pupils repeat after her/him (SELS2.1, CS2.6). Then the teacher and the pupils say the target words 
and act them out together at the same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts them out 
(V3.4, V4.2, V15.1, LS4).  These “homes, houses and neighbourhood”-related actions can be done through 
the actions which can be done in the school, but they are only used for acting without teaching them as 
verbs in English. For instance, they can pretend to do things according to the topic. As a variation, they can 
also repeat the words after the teacher happily, sadly, angrily etc. using different tones of voice through TPR 
techniques (SELS2.3, V11.1, V12.2, LS5, CS2.9). Then some groups of pupils say the words, some groups of 
pupils act them out. While doing the repetitions, they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed 
in different places in the classroom. Some action sequences are also created through which the pupils can 
practise the social language expressions of the theme in a fun way by repeating, pointing, and miming in 
several games. Several fun pronunciation games could be played where pupils whisper a target word into 
the ears of their peers forming a chain and the last person says it aloud and the class checks if the word 
is pronounced correctly or not (D2.5, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, V6.2, LS6, CS2.12).  Their learning is 
evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.

===== PDF_PAGE_257 =====
257
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.5.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS : The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract 
from the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading 
sections of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are 
limited reading texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and 
speed reading are used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading 
for detail are used in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases are used 
in a simplified and age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend and 
help talk/write about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language and 
communicative competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3). For the initial stage of 
reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, 
scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory 
story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the 
conceptual meanings they already have about the theme on “homes, houses and neighbourhood with life in 
the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm” (V3.3, V5.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.8). At this stage, the teacher could ask the pupils to read the title/heading of the content and ask the 
pupils which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title by showing them 
a list of words and corresponding pictures to choose the ones they know (SELS1.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.16.2). She/
He reminds them not to ask for the meanings of new words or the words they do not know. She/He reminds 
them that this is only a recalling activity to check the words they know and that there will be time to work on 
the new words of the new theme later (D3.2, D3.6, V12.1, CS2.10, CS2.12).
ENG.3.5.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 
3-D house model of “homes, houses and neighbourhood” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each item, 
the written form of the word is provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words first 
silently. The teacher then points to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole class. 
Then she/he invites volunteers to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of the 
class read them aloud as a chorus (D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG.3.5.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version 
of the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/Smart Board. She/ He 
asks the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones (SELS2.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14) . From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used 
to understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “homes, houses and neighbourhood with 
life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm” (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, 
V5.2, LS5). During this process pupils work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings 
(SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.6). This is evaluated as described in items (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.

===== PDF_PAGE_258 =====
258
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.5.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: 
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1). The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3).
ENG.3.5.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.
ENG.3.5.V2.
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to the 
theme “homes, houses and neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; 
activities and chores on a farm”, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story again. 
A scanning activity to find out the main details of the introductory digital story (and/or a new text in the 
reading section) is organised to help pupils to know more about the content. This could help them identify 
what the target words in the text could be about. The activity could be designed by listing some pictures for 
the vocabulary about the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text (V3.3, V3.4, V5.2, 
LS5). Pupils circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned (quickly read) in the story/text. 
In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general by using the main elements and also be 
ready to work on the target vocabulary items (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7).  Then, from the beginning, 
whenever an item related to “homes, houses and neighbourhood” is mentioned, the teacher stops the video 
and asks a question in the form of two options by showing their pictures (CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what 
they are based on the pictures, the scene, and the sound, pupils hear the English equivalents of the words for 
the homes, houses and neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities 
and chores on a farm, and they answer as a whole class. In this way, they are introduced to the meaning of 
the target words (D1.1, V5.2, LS5, CS2.10). This is done in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be 
checked as described in items (SELS2.1) (3) and (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of 
the English Curriculum (V4.2, V14.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.3.5.V3.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “homes, houses and neighbourhood”, the teacher prepares an activity using the Web 2.0 
program with images/pictures of components of “homes, houses and the neighbourhood”. She/He prepares 
three boxes on one side of the screen and mixed images/ pictures for target vocabulary related to the “homes, 
houses and neighbourhood” on the other side. She/He asks the pupils to look at the mixed pile of images/
pictures on the Smart Board screen and scan them for a while to remember them (CS2.4). She/He asks 
the pupils to drag the objects about the components of the theme into the correct box on the screen. The 
boxes have the words for each component represented on them with symbolic pictures. The pupils are given 
the cut-out pictures and a large sheet of paper with the pictures of empty boxes. The teacher asks them 
to work in pairs and put the cut-out pictures in the right box and ask each other several display questions 
(CS2.5). When the pupils have finished working with the cut-outs and asking and answering questions about 
them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart Board and drag the corresponding 

===== PDF_PAGE_259 =====
259
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
images/pictures as the components of the theme “homes, houses and neighbourhood” to the correct empty 
boxes on the screen (SELS1.2, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the concept of the 
theme “homes, houses and neighbourhood” are consolidated through categorisation. The same activity can 
be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. To practise the 
meanings of the target words about the school, the teacher places several pictures for them in the different 
parts of the classroom. She/He then puts some flashcards with the target vocabulary for “homes, houses 
and neighbourhood” on the blackboard/whiteboard. She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows it to the 
pupils. Pupils, working in pairs, look at the flashcard, decide which picture on the classroom walls is relevant, 
they go to the picture together, pin the flashcard to the noticeboard and say the word together first in pairs, 
and then as a whole class (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.5). To consolidate the meanings 
of the new vocabulary items for the concept of “homes, houses and neighbourhood”, the teacher could 
organise several activities in pairs and groups with pictures and flashcards such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s 
game, Odd One out, etc. (SELS2.2). These activities are closed and controlled so that pupils can practise 
the current (new) vocabulary about the current context in the beginning but later they work with simple 
and easy open-ended and communicative activities (D2.5, SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5).  This is evaluated as 
described in items (1), (2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum. The teacher asks the pupils to copy the words in their picture dictionaries and then asks 
them to exchange their picture dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling using the words 
written on the model school on the blackboard/Smart Board (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). 
This is evaluated as described in items (3) and (4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
ENG.3.5.G1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS: To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language chunks 
of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target language chunks 
about the theme “homes, houses and neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm 
animals; activities and chores on a farm” (D3.2, V5.2, LS5, CS2.2). While the pupils watch the introductory 
digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates 
the action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the pupils to do the same (CS2.14). She/
He could hold up large pictures and ask the pupils questions about the pictures with the target chunks 
expecting the pupils to ask and answer by using the target chunks. To check the pupils’ identification of the 
target language chunks, the teacher shows some picture strips that she/he has prepared for this activity, 
using some Web 2.0 programmes, after the pupils have watched the introductory digital story and imitated 
the actions and said the target language chunks. She/He asks the pupils to listen to her/him saying a target 
language chunk and then to look at the screen and say “Stop!” when they see a scene in the picture strips 
with the target chunk that the teacher has just said (SELS3.1, CS2.7). The teacher stops if the pupils are 
correct, but not if they are not (V3.3, V4.1, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.3.5.G2.
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme “homes, houses and neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; 
activities and chores on a farm”, and writes the appropriate language chunks to be used with each of the 
groups. She/He also provides the vocabulary items on the Smart Board screen. The teacher wants the pupils 
to think for a while and talk with their peers about which target words can be used in which language chunk 
group (SELS2.2, V3.1, V5.2, V10.3, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.4). Then the pupils go to the board and move the words 
under the correct heading and say the complete sentence with the target words and the chunks. They are 
then asked to say a sentence with the target chunk aloud as a class. Each sentence is repeated after each 
pair. Their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum. The same game can be played with pictures on the blackboard if 

===== PDF_PAGE_260 =====
260
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
there are technological/technical problems (D2.5). To organise the pupils’ further practice to consolidate the 
target language chunks, the teacher could create some action sequences in context by repeating, saying, 
and acting out with different activity bundles where their learning can be checked as described in items (5), 
(8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (CS2.13). There 
is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Pupils can automatically, spontaneously, 
and naturally select and use the target language chunks in the current context (SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, 
LS5, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  For consolidation of the target language chunks, the teacher can facilitate 
more fun activities and games so that the pupils can practise and consolidate them (V4.4, V7.2).
ENG.3.5.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by using 
language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme which 
is about “homes, houses and neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; 
activities and chores on a farm” as in other themes. Writing activities are arranged according to age and 
level so they are quite limited and are gradually expanded (V3.2, V3.4, V5.2, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.3.5.W2.
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions with 
a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are asked 
to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they get used 
to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written language 
(D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3).  To further practise guided and copied writing, the teacher 
gives all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2)  (of two, three, 
four etc.) and to write the names of the vocabulary items “homes, houses and neighbourhood with life in 
the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm” next to their drawings on 
the model related to homes, houses and neighbourhood. The teacher asks them to look at the Smart Board 
screen with the model related to homes, houses and neighbourhood that she/he has made earlier so that 
the pupils can easily copy the target words for the items as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.4, V5.2, V7.3, LS4, LS5).
ENG.3.5.W3.
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form of a 
new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/writing 
(copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “homes, houses and neighbourhood” 
in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, practical, and 
appropriate to the pupils’ age and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.20).
ENG.3.5.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).

===== PDF_PAGE_261 =====
261
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.5.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme “homes, houses and neighbourhood with life in the 
countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm” from simple to more expanded 
versions in their writing (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V4.2, V5.2, V15.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies 
can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce simple 
digital materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, 
V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These activities can be evaluated as described in items (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.3.5.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing expression process and asks them to express their  
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15).  Pupils express what they think and feel about 
them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, 
SELS2.2). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and  
collaborative design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.3.5.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme about “homes, 
houses and neighbourhood with life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores 
on a farm” (V3.2, V4.2, V5.2, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.3.5.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6). They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.
ENG.3.5.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo/picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).
ENG.3.5.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. To interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “homes, houses and neighbourhood with life in the 
countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V5.2, 
V11.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access 
to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings for developing their oral skills (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V3.4, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).

===== PDF_PAGE_262 =====
262
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.5.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:
Pupils communicate with each other by seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target 
words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities 
(SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation 
and revision. These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the 
pupils’ age, interests, and language level. Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively 
and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, 
LS1). Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as 
dialogues, show and tell activities, acting out activities to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar in 
use, and the social language for the theme “homes, houses and neighbourhood” and its components such as 
“life in the countryside; farmhouses and farm animals; activities and chores on a farm” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, 
V4.2, V5.2, V7.2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving 
pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and 
at home through recordings (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as 
described in items (7), (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use and practise by communicating with others.
ENG.3.5.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.15).  The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To talk about farm animals in English by using the target vocabulary and target chunks.  
Activity 1: The teacher draws a farm on the board and asks the pupils to guess what it is. She sticks the word 
“farm” on the board and plays the sounds of farm animals. She asks the children to guess which farm animal it 
is. For each correct guess, she hangs the picture of that animal on the farm and asks the pupils to repeat the 
target words while hanging it. After hanging the photos of all the farm animals, she asks the children to close 
their eyes. She takes one of the pictures on the board and hides it behind her. She asks, “What’s missing?” 
and waits for an answer. After the pupils answer, she says the word and asks them to repeat it. Finally, she 
asks the pupils to match the farm animal words on the edge of the board. Then they reflect on the activity 
with emoticons. The teacher provides positive feedback to encourage them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts 
and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.

===== PDF_PAGE_263 =====
263
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Supporting
Objective: To talk about farm animals in English by using the target vocabulary and target chunks.
Activity 2: The teacher draws a farm on the board and asks the pupils to guess what it is. The teacher sticks 
the word “farm” on the board and plays the sounds of farm animals. The teacher asks the children to guess 
which farm animal it is. For each correct guess, the teacher hangs the picture of that animal on the farm 
and asks the pupils to repeat the target words while hanging it. After hanging the photos of all the farm 
animals, the teacher asks the children to close their eyes. The teacher takes one of the pictures on the 
board and hides it behind her. The teacher asks, “What’s missing?” and waits for an answer. After the pupils 
answer, she says the word and asks them to repeat it. Then they reflect on the activity with emoticons. The 
teacher provides positive feedback to encourage them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about 
the activity by using emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTION
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE.  

===== PDF_PAGE_264 =====
264
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 6: LIFE IN THE CITY & THE WORLD
Sub-themes: Food items and meals, eating outside 
and ordering food
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in the city and the world” and 
covers the sub-themes of “food items and meals, eating outside and ordering 
food”. These components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning 
process through the contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical 
structures, phonological features, and social language expressions. The 
learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, 
and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ developmental 
level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to 
equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively 
use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3.  Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V10. Modesty, V11. 
Independence, V12. Patience, V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V15. Love and 
Affection, V17. Thriftiness, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS3. Financial Literacy, LS4. 
Visual Literacy, LS5. Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Life Study/ Science of Life, Visual Arts, Music, Physical Education 
and Games

===== PDF_PAGE_265 =====
265
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, 
CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking 
Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis 
Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_266 =====
266
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 3 is structured based on holistic approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.3.6.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current content 
on “life in the city and the world with food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures and context.
ENG.3.6.L2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “life in the city and the world with 
food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” together with key details and main 
components while listening/watching it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.3.6.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “life in the city and 
the world with food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” through details by 
listening/watching it carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age- and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school. 
ENG.3.6.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “life in the 
city and the world with food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” in a very 
simple way.
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_267 =====
267
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.6.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about “life in 
the city and the world with food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” accurately, 
authentically, and naturally through spontaneous selection and using it in an appropriate and 
effective way when communicating with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.3.6.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on “life 
in the city and the world with food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.3.6.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “life in the city and the world with 
food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” through skimming (looking quickly at) 
the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.3.6.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “life in the city and 
the world with food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” by reading it carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it 
in a simple and meaningful way.
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_268 =====
268
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.6.R4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the reading-
comprehension process about the current content, “life in the city and the world with food 
items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” for reflection in relation to themselves or 
others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.3.6.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “life in the 
city and the world with food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” accurately, 
authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when 
communicating with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.3.6.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the current 
content about “life in the city and the world with food items and meals, eating outside and 
ordering food” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately 
and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically 
and by pointing.

===== PDF_PAGE_269 =====
269
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.3.6.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “life in 
the city and the world with food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” in an age- 
and level-appropriate way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.3.6.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on “life in 
the city and the world with food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” based on 
the model/example provided to practise for further writing activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.3.6.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“life in the city and the world with food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” 
based on the model/example provided.
a) Pupils organise a very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.3.6.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the 
current content “life in the city and the world with food items and meals, eating outside and 
ordering food”.
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 
ENG.3.6.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks about 
the “life in the city and the world with food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” 
to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully and individually reorganising it.
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_270 =====
270
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.6.W6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “life in the city and the world with food 
items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” very simply for reflection in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.3.6.S1.  Pupils can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “life in the 
city and the world with food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” with the help 
of supplementary audio-visual materials.
a) Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and imitation after 
completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used during the 
initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current content.
ENG.3.6.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme 
on “life in the city and the world with food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.3.6.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “life in the city and the world with food 
items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and 
authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.
ENG.3.6.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “life in the city and the world with food items 
and meals, eating outside and ordering food” through reconstruction by speaking accurately, 
efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.
ENG.3.6.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “life in the city and the 
world with food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” by reconstructing it to 
communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.

===== PDF_PAGE_271 =====
271
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Pupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.
ENG.3.6.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “life in the city and the world with food 
items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” very simply for reflection in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_272 =====
272
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN THE CITY & THE WORLD:
Sub-themes: Food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Meals: Breakfast, lunch, dinner. 
Food Items: Water, milk, tea, bread, fruit juice/juice, cheese, cake, butter, pasta, soup, rice, salad, a 
sandwich, a pancake, a toast, an olive (s).
Vocabulary for eating outside: Fast food, takeaway, a restaurant, a café, a bill, a waiter, a waitress, to eat, to 
drink, to order, to have, to want.
Quantifiers: Some and any (to be used naturally and automatically with all food items, without explaining its 
grammatical function, with language chunks. 
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Language Chunks in Use: 
(Language Chunk: (“The Simple Present Tense”): (What do you want? I want some salad, please).
Function:  Stating desires or preferences.   
Language Chunk:  (“Will”): (What do you want? I’ll/will take some fruit, please).
Function: Stating spontaneous decisions.
Language Chunk: (“Can”): (Can I have some soup ,please? Yes, you can.  Can I see the menu, please? Yes, of 
course).
Function: Asking for permission or making requests. 
Language Chunks: (“Have got/Has got”): Have you got any olives? Yes, I’ve/have got some olives.  
Have you got any fruit juice?  Yes, we’ve/have got some fruit juice.
What have you got for lunch?  We’ve/have got some bread. 
Function: Asking and answering about possession or availability of items. 
Target Social Language in Use:
Dinner is ready!
What’s for breakfast/dinner/lunch?
I am full.
Enjoy your meal!
Breakfast/Lunch/Dinner time!
Pass me the salt, please.
Here you are.
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Vowel: u
Consonants: w,  x, y, z
Vowel: u: (/juː/, /ʌ/, /juː/)
w: (/w/); x: (/ɛks/, /ks/, /gz/); y: (/waɪ/, /j/, /ɪ/, /iː/); z: /(zed/ (Br), /ziː/ (AmE.), /z/)
*No pronunciation symbols will be provided in any material written for the pupils, only the sounds in the 
words including them will be practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_273 =====
273
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations 
The concept of “life in the city and the world” is present in almost all languages because it is one of the 
most basic parts of human beings’ and almost all children’s lives in different parts of the world. People who 
start to learn a new language bring with them their previous/pre-existing knowledge and transfer it to their 
new language learning. So, a primary school pupil in year 3 will know what “life in the city and the world” 
means as a concept but will not know its equivalents in another language if it has not been covered in their 
existing foreign language curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them 
recognise, understand, and learn it more easily in a foreign language, English in this case.
Key Concepts:
Items, food, meals, food items and meals, eating, outside, eating outside, ordering, ordering food, eating 
outside and ordering food.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Pupils will create a menu for a restaurant or cafe. They will design the menu 
by including a variety of food and drink items, and they will categorise the items into different sections such 
as breakfast, lunch, and dinner. They will use vocabulary words like bread, cheese, pasta, and salad to create 
meal options. pupils will also include drinks such as water, milk, tea, and fruit juice. In addition to the food 
and drinks, pupils will write about dining experiences like ordering food from a waiter or waitress and having 
a meal at a restaurant or cafe. They will use phrases such as “Can I have…” or “what do you want” and use 
quantifiers like “some and any” naturally in their sentences. After designing the menu, pupils will present it to 
the class as if they are working in the restaurant, explaining the different food options and what customers 
can expect. The class will rate the presentations through the rating scales or checklists given by the teacher.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of “life in the city & the world” with its components food items 
and meals, eating outside and ordering food” in their own language. As the pupils are 8-year-old primary 
school children, they can know what food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food mean in their 
own language and to be able to express them in their own language. However, they would not know them 
in a foreign language, in this case English, if they were not covered in their existing school curriculum. 
This knowledge in their own language would prepare them to identify the same concepts in their foreign 
language, English, without speaking any Turkish. It is assumed that they have learnt how to ask what things 
are and how to introduce them using language chunks such as “What do you want? I want some salad, please. 
What do you want? I’ll/will take some fruit, please. Can I have some soup please? Yes, you can. Have you got 
any olives? Yes, I’ve/have got some olives. Have you got any fruit juice?  Yes, We’ve/have got some fruit juice. 
What have you got for lunch?  We’ve/have got some bread” in English from the previous year. These chunks 
can be used as a basis for learning the new language chunks in the current theme making the new chunks 
easier to learn. This can be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to a song/chant/
rhyme and so on which will not require any English knowledge and also there will not be a need to speak 
Turkish.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that pupils’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about “life in the city and the world” as a concept in English. Some previous themes from previous 
years would be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “food 
items and meals, eating outside and ordering food”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise 
“life in the city and the world, food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” they learnt before. 

===== PDF_PAGE_274 =====
274
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Some language chunks such as “Dinner is ready! What’s for breakfast/dinner/lunch? I am full. Enjoy your 
meal! Breakfast/Lunch/Dinner time! Pass me the salt, please. Here you are” are also revised by giving 
instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing 
how much they remember and how much they are able to understand and use previously learnt vocabulary 
and language chunks to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise 
or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the 
current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics and/or checklists.)
Establishing Links
Pupils are asked to recall the current (theme) concept of “life in the city and the world” and its components 
such as “food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food”, by remembering their previous/pre-
existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links 
with the current activities in the theme in English without translating anything until they start learning the 
target words in the current concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept 
various visual materials such as a short digital cartoon, a picture, a poster can be prepared and shown (it 
can be a paper picture format if there are technological problems) before the main teaching/learning flow of 
the lesson begins. The pupils are facilitated through the materials they have learnt the concept of it in the 
previous years with various activities. Then they are asked in simple English what was it about. They get help 
from the teacher to be able remember and say. For example the teacher could show the pictures with the 
words next to them so that pupils can remember some vocabulary and language chunks from the previous 
years. The teacher asks them to wait until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the introductory digital story, without asking any further questions.
One of the example practices could be to point correctly to a picture of the current concept in it when they 
are given instructions by the teacher in simple English.  Pupils give responses by pointing out relevant so-
called pictures without speaking any Turkish but only in very simple English or with mimics and gestures.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about the current theme (in their minds) 
in their own language and the present information about the concept through meaningful contextualised 
activities with visuals within the theme.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME FOR WELL-BEING
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive and 
ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as playing a 
short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, saying a tongue 
twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of 
English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_275 =====
275
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.6.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current 
theme during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “life in the city and the world” in 
their minds, so a further concept check would help them prepare for the current theme (D3.2, SELS1.1, 
V3.2, LS1, CS2.11, CS2.16.2). For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and show a card model 
of a school and sets of pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the pupils to point to 
the pictures in or on the model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context of the theme, 
the introductory digital story, that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.8) . For 
each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several 
times while going through the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language 
expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main context 
to the whole theme at the same time. (A 3-D model of life in the city and the world can also be created using 
Web 2.0 programmes.) They can guess the sub-concepts of life in the city and the world, so they can easily 
understand that the current theme will be “life in the city and the world” (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, 
V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17).
ENG.3.6.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “life in the city 
and the world with (extended) food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” as a whole, without 
stopping the video at any point, so that the pupils can understand the theme/topic holistically (D3.2, SELS1.1, 
V3.3, V13.1, V14.1, V17.1, LS1, LS2, LS3, LS4, LS5, CS2.14, CS2.16.2).
ENG.3.6.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to 
the content about life in the city and the world and its relevant components, some pictures are brought into 
the classroom by the teacher. The teacher brings a necessary number of large boxes for the pictures (some 
symbols are stuck on the boxes for life in the city and the world with (extended) food items and meals, eating 
outside and ordering food) and puts the boxes on the table. She/He puts the corresponding picture into 
the related box when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the introductory digital story without 
stopping the video while the pupils watch the story (V3.3, V13.1, V14.1, V17.1, LS1, LS3, LS5). When they have 
watched the whole story, the teacher shows the items in the boxes on the table and asks some simple display 
questions about it. In this way, the teacher could carry out a monologue and also engage in a dialogue with 
the whole class to check that they have recognised the theme as a whole through its components, which can 
be used to check their learning as described in item (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, V6.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). After watching the introductory 
digital story, the teacher takes all the pictures out of the boxes and puts them back on the table again and 
says the word “life in the city and the world” several times aloud, and the pupils repeat after her/him. In this 
way, the main vocabulary of the theme “life in the city and the world” is introduced to the pupils in English. 
To remember the sequence of the scenes with the parts, places, and people in the “life in the city and the 
world” in the introductory digital story, the teacher shows the mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the 
Smart Board and asks the pupils to look at the images/ pictures of these scenes for a while (CS2.3). She/
He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs with the mixed paper pictures she has already given to the 
pupils (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2). When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for scenes of the 
story, the teacher asks the pupils to take turns or volunteer to order the scenes on the screen of the Smart 
Board (or the pictures on the blackboard (SELS1.2, V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10). This will help the 
teacher organise the story as a whole so that the pupils can identify the main theme and the components of 
the theme through their memories (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, CS2.12).

===== PDF_PAGE_276 =====
276
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.6.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3).
ENG.3.6.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “life in the city and the world with 
(extended) food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food”, the teacher puts on the table the 
pictures and boxes that she/he has previously used. She/He holds up each picture and asks the pupils to 
repeat each word aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to the recordings she/he has prepared 
beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes. She/He puts the picture in the correct box about the group 
corresponding to the word while repeating the words with the whole class (V3.4, V13.1, V14.1, V17.1, LS1, LS3, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer variations with some techniques, such as showing the picture 
of the target words about homes, houses and neighbourhood to the pupils to say the word or pointing to 
the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the recording, and then both. To help the pupils 
pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as 
a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then again as 
volunteers, using the shadow technique, in which pupils immediately repeat whatever the teacher is saying 
or the story, without pausing (D1.3, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V3.4, V7.1, LS2, CS2.14).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended with 
different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for the homes, houses and 
neighbourhood and its components, the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts them 
out, the pupils repeat after her/him (SELS2.1, CS2.6). Then the teacher and the pupils say the target words 
and act them out together at the same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts them out 
(V3.4, V4.2, V15.1, LS4). These “life in the city and the world”-related actions can be done through the actions 
which can be done in the school, but they are only used for acting without teaching them as verbs in English. 
For instance, they can pretend to do things according to the topic. As a variation, they can also repeat the 
words after the teacher happily, sadly, angrily etc. using different tones of voice through TPR techniques 
(SELS2.3, V11.1, V12.2, LS5, CS2.9).  Then some groups of pupils say the words, some groups of pupils act 
them out. While doing the repetitions, they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different 
places in the classroom. Some action sequences are also created through which the pupils can practise 
the social language expressions of the theme in a fun way by repeating, pointing, and miming in several 
games. Several fun pronunciation games could be played where pupils whisper a target word into the ears of 
their peers forming a chain and the last person says it aloud and the class checks if the word is pronounced 
correctly or not (D2.5, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, V6.2, LS6, CS2.12).  Their learning is evaluated as 
described in items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.3.6.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS : The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract 
from the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading 
sections of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are 
limited reading texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and 

===== PDF_PAGE_277 =====
277
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
speed reading are used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading 
for detail are used in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases are used 
in a simplified and age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend and 
help talk/write about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language and 
communicative competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3). For the initial stage of 
reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, 
scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory 
story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the 
conceptual meanings they already have about the theme on “life in the city and the world with (extended) 
food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food”  (V3.3, V13.1, V14.1, V17.1, LS2, LS3, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.8). At this stage, the teacher could ask the pupils to read the title/heading of the content and ask the 
pupils which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title by showing them 
a list of words and corresponding pictures to choose the ones they know (SELS1.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.16.2). She/
He reminds them not to ask for the meanings of new words or the words they do not know. She/He reminds 
them that this is only a recalling activity to check the words they know and that there will be time to work on 
the new words of the new theme later (D3.2, D3.6, V12.1, CS2.10, CS2.12).
ENG.3.6.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 3-D 
house model of “life in the city and the world” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each item, the written 
form of the word is provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words first silently. The 
teacher then points to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole class. Then she/he 
invites volunteers to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of the class read them 
aloud as a chorus (D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG.3.6.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version 
of the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/Smart Board. She/ He 
asks the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones (SELS2.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14) . From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used 
to understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “life in the city and the world with (extended) 
food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” (SELS3.1, SELS3.2). During this process pupils work 
collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings (SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.6). This is evaluated 
as described in items (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.
ENG.3.6.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: 
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 

===== PDF_PAGE_278 =====
278
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1). The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3).
ENG.3.6.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.
ENG.3.6.V2.
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to the 
theme “life in the city and the world with (extended) food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food”, 
the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story again. A scanning activity to find out the 
main details of the introductory digital story (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help 
pupils to know more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text 
could be about. The activity could be designed by listing some pictures for the vocabulary about the main 
components of the theme that take place in the story/text (V3.3, V3.4, V13.1, V14.1, V17.1, LS3, LS5). Pupils 
circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned (quickly read) in the story/text. In this way, 
they will be able to understand the story/text in general by using the main elements and also be ready to work 
on the target vocabulary items (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7).  Then, from the beginning, whenever an 
item related to “life in the city and the world” is mentioned, the teacher stops the video and asks a question 
in the form of two options by showing their pictures (CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what they are based on 
the pictures, the scene, and the sound, pupils hear the English equivalents of the words for the life in the 
city and the world with (extended) food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food, and they answer 
as a whole class. In this way, they are introduced to the meaning of the target words (D1.1, V13.1, V14.1, V17.1, 
LS3, LS5, CS2.10). This is done in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described 
in items (SELS2.1) (3) and (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum 
(V4.2, V14.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.3.6.V3.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “school”, the teacher prepares an activity using the Web 2.0 program with images/pictures 
of components of “life in the city and the world”. She/He prepares three boxes on one side of the screen and 
mixed images/ pictures for target vocabulary related to the “life in the city and the world” on the other side. 
She/He asks the pupils to look at the mixed pile of images/pictures on the Smart Board screen and scan them 
for a while to remember them (CS2.4). She/He asks the pupils to drag the objects about the components of 
the theme into the correct box on the screen. The boxes have the words for each component represented 
on them with symbolic pictures. The pupils are given the cut-out pictures and a large sheet of paper with the 
pictures of empty boxes. The teacher asks them to work in pairs and put the cut-out pictures in the right box 
and ask each other several display questions (CS2.5). When the pupils have finished working with the cut-
outs and asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go 
to the Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures as the components of the theme “school” 
to the correct empty boxes on the screen (SELS1.2, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to 
the concept of the theme “life in the city and the world” are consolidated through categorisation. The same 
activity can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. To 
practise the meanings of the target words about the school, the teacher places several pictures for them 
in the different parts of the classroom. She/He then puts some flashcards with the target vocabulary for 
“life in the city and the world” on the blackboard/whiteboard. She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows 

===== PDF_PAGE_279 =====
279
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
it to the pupils. Pupils, working in pairs, look at the flashcard, decide which picture on the classroom walls 
is relevant, they go to the picture together, pin the flashcard to the noticeboard and say the word together 
first in pairs, and then as a whole class (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.5). To consolidate 
the meanings of the new vocabulary items for the concept of “school”, the teacher could organise several 
activities in pairs and groups with pictures and flashcards such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One 
out, etc. (SELS2.2). These activities are closed and controlled so that pupils can practise the current (new) 
vocabulary about the current context in the beginning but later they work with simple and easy open-ended 
and communicative activities (D2.5, SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5).  This is evaluated as described in items (1), 
(2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The 
teacher asks the pupils to copy the words in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their 
picture dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling using the words written on the model 
school on the blackboard/Smart Board (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). This is evaluated as 
described in items (3) and (4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.3.6.G1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS:  To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target language 
chunks about the theme “life in the city and the world with (extended) food items and meals, eating outside 
and ordering food” (D3.2, V13.1, V14.1, V17.1, LS3, LS5, CS2.2). While the pupils watch the introductory digital 
story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the 
action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the pupils to do the same (CS2.14). She/He could 
hold up large pictures and ask the pupils questions about the pictures with the target chunks expecting 
the pupils to ask and answer by using the target chunks. To check the pupils’ identification of the target 
language chunks, the teacher shows some picture strips that she/he has prepared for this activity, using 
some Web 2.0 programmes, after the pupils have watched the introductory digital story and imitated the 
actions and said the target language chunks. She/He asks the pupils to listen to her/him saying a target 
language chunk and then to look at the screen and say “Stop!” when they see a scene in the picture strips 
with the target chunk that the teacher has just said (SELS3.1, CS2.7). The teacher stops if the pupils are 
correct, but not if they are not (V3.3, V4.1, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.3.6.G2.
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme “life in the city and the world with (extended) food items and meals, eating outside and ordering 
food”, and writes the appropriate language chunks to be used with each of the groups. She/He also provides 
the vocabulary items on the Smart Board screen. The teacher wants the pupils to think for a while and talk 
with their peers about which target words can be used in which language chunk group (SELS2.2, V3.1, 
V10.3, V13.1, V14.1, V17.1, LS1, LS3, LS4, LS5, CS2.4).  Then the pupils go to the board and move the words 
under the correct heading and say the complete sentence with the target words and the chunks. They are 
then asked to say a sentence with the target chunk aloud as a class. Each sentence is repeated after each 
pair. Their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum. The same game can be played with pictures on the blackboard if 
there are technological/technical problems (D2.5). To organise the pupils’ further practice to consolidate the 
target language chunks, the teacher could create some action sequences in context by repeating, saying, 
and acting out with different activity bundles where their learning can be checked as described in items (5), 
(8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (CS2.13). There 
is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Pupils can automatically, spontaneously, 
and naturally select and use the target language chunks in the current context (SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, 
LS5, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  For consolidation of the target language chunks, the teacher can facilitate 
more fun activities and games so that the pupils can practise and consolidate them (V4.4, V7.2).

===== PDF_PAGE_280 =====
280
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.3.6.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by using 
language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme which 
is about “life in the city and the world with (extended) food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” 
as in other themes. Writing activities are arranged according to age and level so they are quite limited and 
are gradually expanded (V3.2, V3.4, V13.1, V14.1, V17.1, LS1, LS3, LS4, LS5).
ENG.3.6.W2.
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions with 
a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are asked 
to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they get used 
to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written language 
(D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). To further practise guided and copied writing, the teacher gives 
all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2) (of two, three, four etc.) 
and to write the names of the vocabulary items “life in the city and the world with (extended) food items and 
meals, eating outside and ordering food” next to their drawings on the model related to life in the city and 
the world. The teacher asks them to look at the Smart Board screen with the model related to life in the city 
and the world that she/he has made earlier so that the pupils can easily copy the target words for the items 
as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.4, 
V7.3, V13.1, V14.1, V17.1, LS3, LS4, LS5).
ENG.3.6.W3.
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form of a 
new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/writing 
(copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “life in the city and the world” in fun, 
enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, practical, and appropriate 
to the pupils’ age and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.20).
ENG.3.6.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.3.6.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme “life in the city and the world with (extended) food 
items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” from simple to more expanded versions in their writing 
(SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V4.2, V13.1, V14.1, V15.1, V17.1, LS1, LS3, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can 
be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce simple 

===== PDF_PAGE_281 =====
281
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
digital materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, 
V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These activities can be evaluated as described in items (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.3.6.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing expression process and asks them to express their  
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15).  Pupils express what they think and feel about 
them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, 
SELS2.2). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and  
collaborative design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.3.6.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme about “life in 
the city and the world with (extended) food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” (V3.2, V4.2, 
V13.1, V14.1, V17.1, LS1, LS3, LS4, LS5).
ENG.3.6.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6). They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.
ENG.3.6.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo/picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).
ENG.3.6.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. To interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “life in the city and the world with (extended) 
food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V11.1, V13.1, V14.1, V17.1, 
LS1, LS3, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access 
to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings for developing their oral skills (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V3.4, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).
ENG.3.6.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:
Pupils communicate with each other by seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target 
words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities 
(SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation 

===== PDF_PAGE_282 =====
282
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
and revision. These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the 
pupils’ age, interests, and language level. Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively 
and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, 
LS1). Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as 
dialogues, show and tell activities, acting out activities to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar 
in use, and the social language for the theme “life in the city and the world” and its components such as 
“(extended) food items and meals, eating outside and ordering food” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V7.2, V13.1, 
V14.1, V17.1, LS3, LS4, CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils 
access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home 
through recordings (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described 
in items (7), (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use and practise by communicating with others.
ENG.3.6.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.15).  The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To talk about food items in English by using the target vocabulary and target chunks.  
Activity 1:  The teacher says the names of the pictures of food while hanging them on the board and asks 
the pupils to repeat them. After the pictures are completed, she/he shows the words one by one and asks 
volunteer pupils to match the words with the images of food. After matching, the teacher removes the words 
related to the food and only the pictures remain on the board. The teacher asks a pupil to make a sentence 
with one of the words he/she has chosen, for example, “I have bread”. Another pupil says the sentence her 
friend made and adds one of the food names on the board to the sentence; such as “I have got bread and 
cake”. All the words on the board are completed by adding one food name at a time. Thus, food names are 
repeated. The pupils reflect on the activity by clapping loudly or softly. The teacher provides positive feedback 
to encourage them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
Supporting
Objective: To talk about food items in English by using the target vocabulary and target chunks.
Activity 2: The teacher says the names of the pictures of food while hanging them on the board and asks 
the pupils to repeat them. After the pictures are completed, she/he shows the words one by one and asks 
volunteer pupils to match the words with the images of food. After the matches, one pupil makes a sentence 
with one of the words she chose, such as “I have got bread”. Another pupil says the sentence her friend 

===== PDF_PAGE_283 =====
283
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
made and adds one of the food names on the board to the sentence, such as “I have got bread and cake”. All 
the words on the board are completed by adding one food name at a time. Thus, food names are repeated. 
The pupils reflect on the activity by clapping loudly or softly. The teacher provides positive feedback to 
encourage them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_284 =====
284
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
PRIMARY-YEAR 4 
(LEVEL: A1.3)
THEME 1: SCHOOL LIFE
Sub-themes: People at school; daily routines and 
activities at school; activities at present, favourite 
activities; favourite months; national days and 
celebrations
This theme is centred on the concept of “school life” and covers the sub-themes 
of “people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, 
favourite activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations”. These 
components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning process through the 
contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological 
features, and social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities 
are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are 
tailored to align with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and 
preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the 
knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively use English in their 
daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V11. Independence, 
V12. Patience, V14. Respect, V15. Love and Affection, V16. Responsibility, V18. 
Cleanliness, V20. Benevolence

===== PDF_PAGE_285 =====
285
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Sciences, Visual Arts, Music, Physical Education and 
Games
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. 
Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, 
CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis 
Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_286 =====
286
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 4 is structured based on holistic approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.4.1.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “school life with people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities 
at present, favourite activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures and context.
ENG.4.1.L2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “school life with people at school; 
daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite 
months; national days and celebrations” together with key details and main components while 
listening/watching it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.4.1.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “school life with 
people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite 
activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations” through details by listening/
watching it carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age- and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school. 
ENG.4.1.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “school life 
with people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite 
activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations” in a very simple way.
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_287 =====
287
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.
ENG.4.1.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about “school 
life with people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite 
activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations” accurately, authentically, and 
naturally through spontaneous selection and using it in an appropriate and effective way when 
communicating with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.4.1.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“school life with people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, 
favourite activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.4.1.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “school life with people at school; 
daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite 
months; national days and celebrations” through skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-
visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.4.1.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “school life 
with people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite 
activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations” by reading it carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it 
in a simple and meaningful way.

===== PDF_PAGE_288 =====
288
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.
ENG.4.1.R4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the reading-
comprehension process about the current content, “school life with people at school; daily 
routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; 
national days and celebrations” for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both 
individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.4.1.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “school life with 
people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; 
favourite months; national days and celebrations” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, 
and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.4.1.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the current 
content about “school life with people at school; daily routines and activities at school; 
activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations” 
accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively 
when communicating with others.
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.

===== PDF_PAGE_289 =====
289
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically 
and by pointing.
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.4.1.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “school 
life with people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite 
activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations” in an age- and level-appropriate 
way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.4.1.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on “school 
life with people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite 
activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations” based on the model/example 
provided to practise for further writing activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.4.1.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“school life with people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, 
favourite activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations” based on the model/
example provided.
a) Pupils organise a very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.4.1.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “school life with people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at 
present, favourite activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations”.
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 

===== PDF_PAGE_290 =====
290
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 
ENG.4.1.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks 
about the “school life with people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities 
at present, favourite activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations” to 
communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully and individually reorganising it.
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.
ENG.4.1.W6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “school life with people at school; daily 
routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; 
national days and celebrations” very simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, 
both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.4.1.S1.  Pupils can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “school life 
with people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite 
activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations” with the help of supplementary 
audio-visual materials.
a) ENG3.1.PC1. Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and 
imitation after completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used 
during the initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current 
content.
ENG.4.1.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme on 
“school life with people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, 
favourite activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.4.1.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “school life with people at school; daily 
routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; 
national days and celebrations” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.
ENG.4.1.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “school life with people at school; daily 
routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; 
national days and celebrations” through reconstruction by speaking accurately, efficiently, 
and authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_291 =====
291
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.
ENG.4.1.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “school life with people 
at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; 
favourite months; national days and celebrations” by reconstructing it to communicate with 
other people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.
b) Pupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.
ENG.4.1.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “school life with people at school; daily 
routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; 
national days and celebrations” very simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, 
both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_292 =====
292
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
SCHOOL LIFE:
Sub-themes: people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite 
activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for People at school: A man, men, people, a woman, women, a child, children, a parent, parents, 
a school counsellor.
Vocabulary for school activities: To arrive at (school), to have (an assembly (homeroom-AmE.)), to attend 
(lessons), to have (a break (recess-AmE.)), to have breakfast/lunch, to leave (school), to meet, to do sports, 
to prepare, to participate in (drama performances, talent shows).
Other vocabulary: A club meeting, a school play, a sports day, a talent show, a parent-teacher meeting, a 
field trip, a main hall.
Days of the week: Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday
Months of the year: January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, 
December.
Greetings:
How are you? I’m doing well, thanks!
How is it going? It’s going well, thank you!
Not bad, thanks!
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations:  “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Background Language Chunks in Use:
“To be” present (am, is, are): 
Language Chunks:
(Who is Mrs Clark? She’s/is our new school headmistress. Where’s/is she now? She’s/is in her office now. 
What’s/is your favourite school activity? My favourite school activity is the drama show. What’s your favourite 
month? My favourite month is January.)
Functions: Telling who people are, where people and things are, telling what month it is; expressing 
preferences for favourite months.
The Simple Present Tense: 
Language Chunks: (What do you do at school in the mornings/every day/on Mondays etc.
We have a school assembly every morning).
Functions: Describing daily routines and activities at school.
The Present Progressive Tense: 
Language Chunks: (What are you doing at school now? We’re having lunch at school now).
Functions: Describing activities at school at present time.
Personal Pronouns: I, we, he, she, it, we, you, they.
Functions: Referring to the speaker as the subject.

===== PDF_PAGE_293 =====
293
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Target Language Chunks in Use:
The Simple Present Tense vs The Present Progressive Tense: 
(I always read books in the morning but I am listening to music today)
Functions: Contrasting habitual actions with temporary or current actions.
Comparing things-Superlative forms of adjectives (Regular adjectives): 
(Maths was the hardest subject for her last year. This is the smartest student group in the school).
Function: Comparing more than two people, things, or places and expressing the highest or lowest degree 
of a quality.
Prepositions: in, on, at, during, between.
Functions: Indicating time, place, or position in relation to other objects or events. 
Wh- question words: what, where, who, why, when, which, what kind of.
Functions: Asking for specific information about things, people, reasons, places, times, or choices. 
Demonstrative pronouns: this, that
Functions:
This: Referring to something specific that is close to the speaker in space, time, or context; modifying a 
noun, indicating something nearby or immediately relevant. 
That: Referring to something specific that is farther away in space, time, or context from the speaker.
Demonstrative pronouns: these, those
Functions:
These: Expressing the physical or metaphorical closeness of the referent.
Those: Referring things or people away from the speaker.
Linking words: Because
Target Social Language in Use:
See you next week!
It sounds great!
Come on!
What’s going on?
What’s up?
Thanks a lot!
Let’s not be late!
I can’t wait!
I hope so.
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Vowel: a 
Consonant: b
Vowel a: (/ae/, /aeı/, /ə/, /a:/, /eɪ/, /a:/, /a/, /ɔː/, /eə/)
Consonant: b: (/b/, silent /b/)
*No pronunciation symbols will be included in any material written for the pupils, (only) the sounds will be 
practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations 
“School life” is present in almost all languages because it is one of the most basic parts of almost all human 
beings’ and all children’s lives in different parts of the world. People who start to learn a new language bring 
with them their previous/pre-existing knowledge and transfer it to their new language learning. So, a primary 
school pupil in year 4 will know what “school life” means as a concept but will not know its equivalents in 
another language if it has not been covered in their existing foreign language curriculum. However, this 
existing knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn it more easily in a 
foreign language, English in this case.

===== PDF_PAGE_294 =====
294
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Key Concepts:
Routines, daily routines, activities, people, routines at school, activities at school, daily routines and 
activities at school, activities at present, favourites, favourite activities, months, favourite months, national 
days, celebrations, national days and celebrations.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Pupils will create a School Life Diary to describe their typical day, favourite 
activities, and special celebrations. They will write about their daily routines, like what they do when they 
arrive at school, during assemblies, and their lunch or breaks. Pupils will also share their favourite activities 
such as sports or drama performances. Next, they will write about national holidays like the “Republic Day”, 
explaining how these are celebrated at school. Finally, pupils will describe what they are doing at present, 
by using phrases like, “We’re having lunch” and they will ask each other questions about school routines and 
share their answers. After completing their diaries, they will present them to the class. The class will rate the 
presentations through the rating scales or checklists given by the teacher.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of the “people at school; daily routines and activities at 
school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations” in their 
own language. As the pupils are 9-year-old primary school children, they can know what “people at school; 
daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; national 
days and celebrations” mean in their own language and to be able to express them in their own language.  
However, they would not know them in a foreign language, in this case English, if they were not covered in 
their existing school curriculum. This knowledge in their own language would prepare them to identify the 
same concepts in their foreign language, English, without speaking any Turkish. It is assumed that they have 
learnt how to ask what things are and how to introduce them using language chunks such as “What’s/is your 
favourite school activity? My favourite school activity is the drama show. What’s your favourite month? My 
favourite month is January. What do you do at school in the mornings/every day/on Mondays etc. We have 
a school assembly every morning. What are you doing at school now? We’re having lunch at school now” in 
English from the previous year. These chunks can be used as a basis for learning the new language chunks 
in the current theme making the new chunks easier to learn. This can be an activity such as a short game, a 
physical activity, listening to a song/chant/rhyme and so on which will not require any English knowledge and 
also there will not be a need to speak Turkish. 
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that pupils’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about “school life” as a concept in English. Some previous themes from previous years would be 
helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “people at school; daily 
routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; national days 
and celebrations”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise content about “school life” they learnt 
before. Some language chunks are also revised as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance 
can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to understand and use 
previously learnt vocabulary and language chunks to build their competence in the current theme. It can 
be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the 
new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics and/or 
checklists.)

===== PDF_PAGE_295 =====
295
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Establishing Links
Pupils are asked to recall the current (theme) concept of “school life” and its components such as “people at 
school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; 
national days and celebrations”, by remembering their previous/pre-existing background knowledge about 
it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with the current activities in the theme 
in English without translating anything until they start learning the target words in the current concept in 
English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept 
various visual materials such as a short digital cartoon, a picture, a poster can be prepared and shown (it 
can be a paper picture format if there are technological problems) before the main teaching/learning flow of 
the lesson begins. The pupils are facilitated through the materials they have learnt the concept of it in the 
previous years with various activities. Then they are asked in simple English what was it about. They get help 
from the teacher to be able remember and say. For example the teacher could show the pictures with the 
words next to them so that pupils can remember some vocabulary and language chunks from the previous 
years. The teacher asks them to wait until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the introductory digital story, without asking any further questions.
One of the example practices could be to point correctly to a picture of the current concept in it when they 
are given instructions by the teacher in simple English.  Pupils give responses by pointing out relevant so-
called pictures without speaking any Turkish but only in very simple English or with mimics and gestures.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about the current theme (in their minds) 
in their own language and the present information about the concept through meaningful contextualised 
activities with visuals within the theme.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME FOR WELL-BEING
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive and 
ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as playing a 
short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, saying a tongue 
twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of 
English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG.4.1.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current 
theme during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “school life” in their minds, so a 
further concept check would help them prepare for the current theme (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, CS2.11, 
CS2.16.2). For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and show a card model of a school and 

===== PDF_PAGE_296 =====
296
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
sets of pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the pupils to point to the pictures in or 
on the model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context of the theme, the introductory 
digital story, that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.8). For each theme, a digitally 
constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through 
the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic 
meaning of the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the 
same time. (A 3-D model of school life can also be created using Web 2.0 programmes.) They can guess the 
sub-concepts of school life, so they can easily understand that the current theme will be “school life” (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17).
ENG.4.1.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “school life with 
(extended) people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; 
favourite months; national days and celebrations” as a whole, without stopping the video at any point, so 
that the pupils can understand the theme/topic holistically (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.1, V4.4, 
V14.1, V16.1, V16.2, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.14, CS2.16.2).
ENG.4.1.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to 
the content about school life and its relevant components, some pictures are brought into the classroom by 
the teacher. The teacher brings a necessary number of large boxes for the pictures (some symbols are stuck 
on the boxes for school life with (extended) people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities 
at present, favourite activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations) and puts the boxes on 
the table. She/He puts the corresponding picture into the related box when the corresponding vocabulary 
is mentioned in the introductory digital story without stopping the video while the pupils watch the story 
(V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.1, V4.4, V10.3, V14.1, V16.1, V16.2, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1). When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the items in the boxes on the table and asks some simple display questions 
about it. In this way, the teacher could carry out a monologue and also engage in a dialogue with the whole 
class to check that they have recognised the theme as a whole through its components, which can be used 
to check their learning as described in item (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, V6.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). After watching the introductory digital 
story, the teacher takes all the pictures out of the boxes and puts them back on the table again and says the 
word “school life” several times aloud, and the pupils repeat after her/him. In this way, the main vocabulary 
of the theme “school life” is introduced to the pupils in English. To remember the sequence of the scenes 
with the parts, places, and people in the “school life” in the introductory digital story, the teacher shows the 
mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the pupils to look at the images/ pictures 
of these scenes for a while (CS2.3). She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs with the mixed paper 
pictures she has already given to the pupils (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2) . When the pairs have finished 
sorting the pictures for scenes of the story, the teacher asks the pupils to take turns or volunteer to order 
the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board (or the pictures on the blackboard (SELS1.2, V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, 
LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10). This will help the teacher organise the story as a whole so that the pupils can identify 
the main theme and the components of the theme through their memories (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, CS2.12).
ENG.4.1.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 

===== PDF_PAGE_297 =====
297
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3).
ENG.4.1.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “school life with (extended) people at 
school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; 
national days and celebrations”, the teacher puts on the table the pictures and boxes that she/he has 
previously used. She/He holds up each picture and asks the pupils to repeat each word aloud a few times 
as a whole class after listening to the recordings she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 
programmes. She/He puts the picture in the correct box about the group corresponding to the word while 
repeating the words with the whole class (V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.1, V4.4, V14.1, V16.1, V16.2, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, 
LS1, LS4, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer variations with some techniques, such as showing the picture 
of the target words about school to the pupils to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when 
they hear the word from the recording, and then both. To help the pupils pronounce the words accurately, 
the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/him or 
the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers, using the shadow 
technique, in which pupils immediately repeat whatever the teacher is saying or the story, without pausing 
(D1.3, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V3.4, V7.1, LS2, CS2.14).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended 
with different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for the school and its 
components, the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts them out, the pupils repeat 
after her/him (SELS2.1, CS2.6). Then the teacher and the pupils say the target words and act them out 
together at the same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts them out (V3.4, V4.2, V15.1, 
LS4). These “school life”-related actions can be done through the actions which can be done in the school, 
but they are only used for acting without teaching them as verbs in English. For instance, they can pretend 
to do things according to the topic. As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, 
sadly, angrily etc. using different tones of voice through TPR techniques (SELS2.3, V11.1, V12.2, LS5, CS2.9). 
Then some groups of pupils say the words, some groups of pupils act them out. While doing the repetitions, 
they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom. Some action 
sequences are also created through which the pupils can practise the social language expressions of the 
theme in a fun way by repeating, pointing, and miming in several games. Several fun pronunciation games 
could be played where pupils whisper a target word into the ears of their peers forming a chain and the 
last person says it aloud and the class checks if the word is pronounced correctly or not (D2.5, SELS2.1, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, V6.2, LS6, CS2.12).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.1.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS : The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract 
from the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading 
sections of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are 
limited reading texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and 
speed reading are used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading 
for detail are used in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases are used 
in a simplified and age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend and 

===== PDF_PAGE_298 =====
298
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
help talk/write about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language and 
communicative competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3). For the initial stage of 
reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, 
scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory 
story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the 
conceptual meanings they already have about the theme on “school life with (extended) people at school; 
daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; national 
days and celebrations” (V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.1, V4.4, V14.1, V16.1, V16.2, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 
At this stage, the teacher could ask the pupils to read the title/heading of the content and ask the pupils 
which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title by showing them a list 
of words and corresponding pictures to choose the ones they know (SELS1.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.16.2). She/He 
reminds them not to ask for the meanings of new words or the words they do not know. She/He reminds 
them that this is only a recalling activity to check the words they know and that there will be time to work on 
the new words of the new theme later (D3.2, D3.6, V12.1, CS2.10, CS2.12).
ENG.4.1.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 3-D 
house model of “school life” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each item, the written form of the word is 
provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words first silently. The teacher then points 
to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole class. Then she/he invites volunteers 
to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of the class read them aloud as a chorus 
(D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG.4.1.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version 
of the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/Smart Board. She/ He 
asks the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14) . From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used 
to understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “school life with (extended) people at school; 
daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; national 
days and celebrations” (SELS3.1, SELS3.2).  During this process pupils work collaboratively to exchange 
information, thoughts, and feelings (SELS2.2, V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2, V4.4, V14.1, V16.1, V16.2, V18.2, 
V19.1, V19.2, CS2.6). This is evaluated as described in items (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.1.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: 
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1). The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3).

===== PDF_PAGE_299 =====
299
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.1.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.
ENG.4.1.V2.
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY:  To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to 
the theme “school life with (extended) people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities 
at present, favourite activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations”, the teacher asks the 
pupils to watch the introductory digital story again. A scanning activity to find out the main details of the 
introductory digital story (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help pupils to know more 
about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some pictures for the vocabulary about the main components of the 
theme that take place in the story/text (V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.1, V4.4, V14.1, V16.1, V16.2, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2). 
Pupils circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned (quickly read) in the story/text. In this 
way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general by using the main elements and also be ready to 
work on the target vocabulary items (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then, from the beginning, whenever 
an item related to “school life” is mentioned, the teacher stops the video and asks a question in the form of 
two options by showing their pictures (CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what they are based on the pictures, 
the scene, and the sound, pupils hear the English equivalents of the words for the school life with (extended) 
people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite 
months; national days and celebrations, and they answer as a whole class. In this way, they are introduced to 
the meaning of the target words (D1.1, CS2.10). This is done in the form of a dialogue where their learning can 
be checked as described in items (SELS2.1) (3) and (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of 
the English Curriculum (V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2, V4.4, V14.1, V16.1, V16.2, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS2, 
LS4).
ENG.4.1.V3.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “school”, the teacher prepares an activity using the Web 2.0 program with images/pictures 
of components of “school life”. She/He prepares three boxes on one side of the screen and mixed images/ 
pictures for target vocabulary related to the “school life” on the other side. She/He asks the pupils to look at 
the mixed pile of images/pictures on the Smart Board screen and scan them for a while to remember them 
(CS2.4). She/He asks the pupils to drag the objects about the components of the theme into the correct 
box on the screen. The boxes have the words for each component represented on them with symbolic 
pictures. The pupils are given the cut-out pictures and a large sheet of paper with the pictures of empty 
boxes. The teacher asks them to work in pairs and put the cut-out pictures in the right box and ask each 
other several display questions (CS2.5). When the pupils have finished working with the cut-outs and asking 
and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart 
Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures as the components of the theme “school” to the correct 
empty boxes on the screen (SELS1.2, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the concept 
of the theme “school life” are consolidated through categorisation. The same activity can be done with real 
pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. To practise the meanings of the 
target words about the school, the teacher places several pictures for them in the different parts of the 
classroom. She/He then puts some flashcards with the target vocabulary for “school life” on the blackboard/
whiteboard. She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows it to the pupils. Pupils, working in pairs, look at 
the flashcard, decide which picture on the classroom walls is relevant, they go to the picture together, pin 
the flashcard to the noticeboard and say the word together first in pairs, and then as a whole class (SELS2.1, 

===== PDF_PAGE_300 =====
300
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
SELS2.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.5). To consolidate the meanings of the new vocabulary items for 
the concept of “school”, the teacher could organise several activities in pairs and groups with pictures 
and flashcards such as Bingo, Pelma nism, King’s game, Odd One out, etc. (SELS2.2). These activities are 
closed and controlled so that pupils can practise the current (new) vocabulary about the current context 
in the beginning but later they work with simple and easy open-ended and communicative activities (D2.5, 
SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5). This is evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The teacher asks the pupils to copy the words 
in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with their peers and 
check each other’s spelling using the words written on the model school on the blackboard/Smart Board 
(SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4).  This is evaluated as described in items (3) and (4) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.1.G1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS:  To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target 
language chunks about the theme “school life with (extended) people at school; daily routines and activities 
at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations” (D3.2, 
V19.1, V19.2, CS2.2). While the pupils watch the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes 
where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by showing the scene, saying the 
chunk, and asking the pupils to do the same (CS2.14). She/He could hold up large pictures and ask the pupils 
questions about the pictures with the target chunks expecting the pupils to ask and answer by using the 
target chunks. To check the pupils’ identification of the target language chunks, the teacher shows some 
picture strips that she/he has prepared for this activity, using some Web 2.0 programmes, after the pupils 
have watched the introductory digital story and imitated the actions and said the target language chunks. 
She/He asks the pupils to listen to her/him saying a target language chunk and then to look at the screen and 
say “Stop!” when they see a scene in the picture strips with the target chunk that the teacher has just said 
(SELS3.1, CS2.7). The teacher stops if the pupils are correct, but not if they are not (V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.1, 
V4.4, V14.1, V16.1, V16.2, V18.2, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.4.1.G2.
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme “school life with (extended) people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at 
present, favourite activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations”, and writes the appropriate 
language chunks to be used with each of the groups. She/He also provides the vocabulary items on the 
Smart Board screen. The teacher wants the pupils to think for a while and talk with their peers about which 
target words can be used in which language chunk group (SELS2.2, V3.1, V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.1, V4.4, V10.3, 
V14.1, V16.1, V16.2, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). Then the pupils go to the board and move the words 
under the correct heading and say the complete sentence with the target words and the chunks. They are 
then asked to say a sentence with the target chunk aloud as a class. Each sentence is repeated after each 
pair. Their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum. The same game can be played with pictures on the blackboard if 
there are technological/technical problems (D2.5). To organise the pupils’ further practice to consolidate the 
target language chunks, the teacher could create some action sequences in context by repeating, saying, 
and acting out with different activity bundles where their learning can be checked as described in items (5), 
(8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (CS2.13). There 
is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Pupils can automatically, spontaneously, 
and naturally select and use the target language chunks in the current context (SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, 
LS5, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  For consolidation of the target language chunks, the teacher can facilitate 
more fun activities and games so that the pupils can practise and consolidate them (V4.4, V7.2).

===== PDF_PAGE_301 =====
301
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.1.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by using 
language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme which 
is about “school life with (extended) people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at 
present, favourite activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations” as in other themes. Writing 
activities are arranged according to age and level so they are quite limited and are gradually expanded (V3.2, 
V3.3, V3.4, V4.1, V4.4, V14.1, V16.1, V16.2, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.4.1.W2.
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise 
the language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions 
with a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are 
asked to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they 
get used to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written 
language (D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3).  To further practise guided and copied writing, the 
teacher gives all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2) (of two, 
three, four etc.) and to write the names of the vocabulary items “school life with (extended) people at school; 
daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; national 
days and celebrations” next to their drawings on the model related to school life. The teacher asks them to 
look at the Smart Board screen with the model related to school life that she/he has made earlier so that the 
pupils can easily copy the target words for the items as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V3.2, V3.4, V4.1, V4.4, V7.3, V14.1, V16.1, V16.2, V18.2, V19.1, 
V19.2, LS4).
ENG.4.1.W3.
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form of a 
new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/writing 
(copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “school life” in fun, enjoyable, varied, 
and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, practical, and appropriate to the pupils’ age 
and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.20).
ENG.4.1.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.4.1.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme “school life with (extended) people at school; daily 
routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; national days 
and celebrations” from simple to more expanded versions in their writing (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V3.2, V3.3, 

===== PDF_PAGE_302 =====
302
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
V3.4, V4.1, V4.2 V4.4, V10.3, V14.1, V15.1, V16.1, V16.2, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based 
technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also 
produce simple digital materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways (D3.3, SELS3.2, 
SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These activities can be evaluated as described in items (8), (9), (10), 
(11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.1.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing expression process and asks them to express their  
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15).  Pupils express what they think and feel about 
them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, 
SELS2.2). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and  
collaborative design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.4.1.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme about “school 
life with (extended) people at school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite 
activities; favourite months; national days and celebrations” (V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2 V4.4, V10.3, V14.1, 
V16.1, V16.2, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.4.1.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6). They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.
ENG.4.1.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo/picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).
ENG.4.1.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. To interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “school life with (extended) people at school; daily 
routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; national days 
and celebrations” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.1, V4.2, V4.4, V11.1, V14.1, V16.1, V16.2, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS1, LS4, 
LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings for 
developing their oral skills (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V3.4, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).

===== PDF_PAGE_303 =====
303
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.1.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:
Pupils communicate with each other by seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target 
words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities 
(SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation 
and revision. These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the 
pupils’ age, interests, and language level. Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively 
and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, 
LS1). Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as 
dialogues, show and tell activities, acting out activities to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar 
in use, and the social language for the theme “school life” and its components such as “(extended) people at 
school; daily routines and activities at school; activities at present, favourite activities; favourite months; 
national days and celebrations” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2, V4.4, V7.2, V10.3, V14.1, 
V16.1, V16.2, V18.2, V19.1, V19.2, LS4, CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, 
giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school 
and at home through recordings (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated 
as described in items (7), (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use and practise by communicating with others.
ENG.4.1.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.15).  The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To ask and answer about people at school; daily routines and activities at school; favourite 
activities at school, in English, by using the target vocabulary and target chunks. 
Activity 1: Tap and Match 
Pupils work in groups to match school-themed questions with their corresponding answers. The answer 
cards are placed face-up on the table, while the question cards are kept in a box face-down. Each group takes 
turns being the reader. The reader draws a question card, reads it aloud, and the other groups collaborate to 
quickly find and slap the correct answer card on the table.

===== PDF_PAGE_304 =====
304
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Questions:
• What do you do at school in the morning?
• What is your favourite school activity?
• What are you doing at school now?
Answers:
• We have a school assembly every morning.
• My favourite school activity is the drama performance.
• We are having lunch now.
Each correct match earns a point for the group. The game continues until all questions are matched. The 
group with the most points wins, encouraging teamwork and helping pupils improve their understanding of 
school-themed vocabulary and sentence structures. The teacher provides positive feedback to motivate 
them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
Supporting
Objective: To identify people at school; daily routines and activities at school; favourite activities at school, 
in English, by using target vocabulary.
Activity 1: Tap and Match
“Tap and Match” is a fun game where pupils match school-themed words with corresponding images. Pupils 
play this game using image cards placed face-up on the table and word cards read aloud. In each round, 
one pupil acts as the “reader” and picks a word card to read aloud. Other pupils quickly identify and tap the 
correct image card. The first pupil to tap the correct card earns a point, while tapping the wrong card means 
losing their turn for that round. At the end of the game, the pupil or group with the most points wins. This 
activity supports vocabulary building and visual memory in a fun and engaging way. The teacher provides 
positive feedback to encourage them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by 
using emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE.  

===== PDF_PAGE_305 =====
305
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 2: CLASSROOM LIFE
Sub-themes: School subjects and classroom 
activities; favourite school subjects and classroom 
activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the 
year, favourite seasons 
This theme is centred on the concept of “classroom life” and covers the sub-
themes of “school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects 
and classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite 
seasons”. These components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning 
process through the contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical 
structures, phonological features, and social language expressions. The 
learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, 
and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ developmental 
level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to 
equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively 
use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill 
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, 
V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, V14. Respect, V15. Love and 
Affection, V16. Responsibility, V20. Benevolence

===== PDF_PAGE_306 =====
306
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Sciences, Visual Arts, Music, Physical Education and 
Games
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, 
CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking 
Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis 
Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_307 =====
307
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 4 is structured based on holistic approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.4.2.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “classroom life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school 
subjects and classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite 
seasons”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures and context.
ENG.4.2.L2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “classroom life with school subjects 
and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in 
the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” together with key details and main 
components while listening/watching it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.4.2.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “classroom life with 
school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities 
now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” through details by listening/
watching it carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age- and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school. 
ENG.4.2.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “classroom 
life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom 
activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” in a very simple 
way.

===== PDF_PAGE_308 =====
308
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.
ENG.4.2.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“classroom life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects 
and classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” 
accurately, authentically, and naturally through spontaneous selection and using it in an 
appropriate and effective way when communicating with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.4.2.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“classroom life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and 
classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.4.2.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “classroom life with school subjects 
and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in the 
past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” through skimming (looking quickly at) the 
audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.4.2.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “classroom 
life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom 
activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” by reading it 
carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.

===== PDF_PAGE_309 =====
309
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it in 
a simple and meaningful way.
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.
ENG.4.2.R4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the reading-
comprehension process about the current content, “classroom life with school subjects and 
classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in the past; 
time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” for reflection in relation to themselves or others, 
both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.4.2.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “classroom life with 
school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities 
now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” accurately, authentically, 
spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating 
with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.4.2.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the current 
content about “classroom life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school 
subjects and classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite 
seasons” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and 
effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.

===== PDF_PAGE_310 =====
310
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically 
and by pointing.
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.4.2.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on 
“classroom life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and 
classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” in an 
age- and level-appropriate way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.4.2.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on 
“classroom life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and 
classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” based 
on the model/example provided to practise for further writing activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.4.2.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“classroom life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and 
classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” based 
on the model/example provided.
a) Pupils organise a very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.4.2.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the 
current content “classroom life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite 
school subjects and classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, 
favourite seasons”.
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 

===== PDF_PAGE_311 =====
311
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 
ENG.4.2.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks about 
the “classroom life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects 
and classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” to 
communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully and individually reorganising it.
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.
ENG.4.2.W6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “classroom life with school subjects 
and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in the 
past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” very simply for reflection in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.4.2.S1.  Pupils can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “classroom 
life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom 
activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” with the help of 
supplementary audio-visual materials.
a) Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and imitation after 
completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used during the 
initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current content.
ENG.4.2.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme 
on “classroom life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects 
and classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.4.2.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “classroom life with school subjects and 
classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in the 
past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and 
authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.

===== PDF_PAGE_312 =====
312
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.2.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “classroom life with school subjects and 
classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in the past; 
time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” through reconstruction by speaking accurately, 
efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.
ENG.4.2.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “classroom life with 
school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities 
now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” by reconstructing it to 
communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.
b) Pupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.
ENG.4.2.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “classroom life with school subjects 
and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in the 
past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” very simply for reflection in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_313 =====
313
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
CLASSROOM LIFE:
Sub-themes: School subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities 
now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Classroom objects: A folder, a board marker, a calculator, a highlighter, a stapler, a folder, a poster, a chart, 
a worksheet, an activity book.
Classroom devices: A projector, a calculator, speakers, a printer, a headphone.
Time: o’clock, time, a.m., p.m., in the morning, in the afternoon, in the evening, on Monday.
School subjects: a lesson (class-AmE.) Turkish, Maths, Social Sciences, Sisual Arts, Music, Physical 
Education and Games, English
Verbs: To study, to write, to read, to listen, to talk, to speak.
Seasons: Summer, Autumn, Winter, Spring
Cardinal Numbers: 50-100
Ordinal numbers: 1-30
The alphabet song
Time expressions: Today, now, at present.
Verbs for preferences: To like, to love, to want, to dislike, to hate.
Possessive adjectives: My, her, his, its, our, your, their.
Object pronouns: Me, her, him, it, you, us, them.
Demonstrative pronouns: These, those.
Classroom instructions and classroom language (Not to teach as target language chunks with structural 
rules but to be used constantly by the teacher as meta-language):
Work quietly, please!
Look at the screen, please!
Listen carefully, please!
Turn to your peer, please!
Talk with your peers, please!
Pair up with your peer /friend, please!
Let’s return to our seats, please.
Write this down, please!
Read this, please!
Check your answers, please!
Choose the correct answer, please!
Spell the words, please!
Finish the exercise, please!
Pack your things, please!
Classroom language:
Let me start the lesson!
It’s time to finish the lesson!
I’m sorry for the mistake!
Time to line up!
What page are we on?
Time’s ticking!
Do you get it?
I get/got it!
You’re punctual/late!
Excellent!

===== PDF_PAGE_314 =====
314
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations:  “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Language Chunks in Use:
Language Chunks: “To be” in the past (was, were): (What was your favourite lesson last year? My favourite 
lesson was Maths last year. What was there at school yesterday? There was a talent show at school yesterday.  
What was there on the desk yesterday? There was a map on the desk yesterday).
Functions of the Target Language Chunks:
was/were: Describing past states or conditions of things or people. 
There was/ There were: Expressing the existence or presence of things or people in the past. 
Asking and answering about past states, events, and existence of things or people. 
Like + gerunds:
Language chunks: (What do you like doing in English lessons? I like learning new words.
Do you like doing sports in PE lessons? Yes, I do. No, I don’t).
Functions: Expressing preference or enjoyment.
Background Language Chunks with the target topics:
 “To be” (present) with time: (+), (-), (?):
Language Chunks:
(What’s/is the time now? What time is it now? It’s/is ten past five. 
(What time/when is the science lesson? The science lesson is at half past nine. It’s on Tuesday. It’s at half 
past nine on Tuesday).
“To be“ (present) with seasons: 
What’s/is the season now? It’s Winter. What’s/is your favourite? Which season is your favourite? My favourite 
season is Winter.
“To be“ (present) with school subjects: 
What lesson is it now? It’s/is Maths. What is your favourite school subject? My favourite school subject is 
Maths.
Functions: Telling what things are, telling if there are or there are not any (existence of) lessons, telling 
number of things and people, telling how the weather is, telling the time, telling the preferences about 
favourite school subjects/lessons.
The Present Progressive Tense: (+), (-), (?):
Language Chunks: 
(What are you doing in the classroom now? I’m studying English now). 
Functions: Describing actions happening in the classroom now.
The Simple Present Tense: (+), (-), (?):
Language Chunks:
(What do you do in PE lesson? We do sports in PE lesson.
What lesson/school subject is your favourite? What’s/is your favourite school subject? English is my favourite 
school subject/lesson).
(What season do you like? I like winter). 
Function: Describing general preferences about lessons and school subjects.

===== PDF_PAGE_315 =====
315
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Countable/ Uncountable nouns:
Language Chunks: 
(There are five folders on the desk. There’s some glue on the paper).
Functions: Differentiating between nouns that can be counted (countable) and those that cannot 
(uncountable), often in reference to quantity.
There are/there is: (+) (-) (?):
Language Chunks: 
(Is there a Science lesson on Monday? Yes, there’s/is a Science lesson on Monday. Yes, there is. How many 
lessons are there today?  There are five lessons today).
Functions:  Expressing the existence of things and people.
Whose and Possessive adjectives:
Language Chunks: (Whose pens are they? They are my pens).
Functions: Describing ownership by modifying a noun to show ownership.
Time expressions: yesterday, ago, last.
Function: Indicating when an action took place, specifically in the past. 
Time: half past, quarter to, quarter past, (ten) past (five), (three) to (nine).
Function: Telling time in various forms. 
Target Social Language in Use:
Good to see you!
Take care!
It’s raining cats and dogs!
Let’s break the ice!
That’s one in a million!
I’m sorry to hear that!
What does that mean?
Make sure.
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Vowel: e
Consonants: c, d, 
Vowel: e: (/e/, /i:/, /ə/)
Consonants: c: (/si/, /k/, /tʃ/, /z/); d: (/d/)
*No pronunciation symbols will be included in any material written for the pupils, (only) the sounds will be 
practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations 
The concept of “classroom life” is present in almost all languages because it is one of the most basic parts 
of almost all human beings’ and all children’s lives in different parts of the world. People who start to learn a 
new language bring with them their previous/pre-existing knowledge and transfer it to their new language 
learning. So, a primary school pupil in year 4 will know what “classroom life” mean as a concept but will 
not know its equivalents in another language if it has not been covered in their existing foreign language 
curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, 
and learn it more easily in a foreign language, English in this case.
Key Concepts:
Activities, subjects, classroom, school, school subjects, classroom activities, favourite school subjects, 
favourite classroom activities, now, past, time, classroom activities now, classroom activities in the past, 
seasons, favourite seasons, weather, weather conditions, favourite weather, weather conditions now, 
weather conditions in the past.

===== PDF_PAGE_316 =====
316
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Pupils will create a Classroom Life News Report. In this activity, they will 
act as reporters and present a simple live report about their school day, classroom activities, and favourite 
subjects. First, they will introduce the school subjects they attend, saying what activities they do in each 
class, using sentences like “In Science, we study plants” or “In PE, we do sports”. Next, pupils will simply 
report the weather and mention how the weather affects their school day, like “Today, it’s sunny, so we had a 
break outside”. They will also discuss their favourite school subject and explain why they enjoy it, such as “I 
love Social Studies because I like learning about history”. Each pupil will present their report to the class, and 
the class will discuss the different activities and preferences shared. The class will rate the presentations 
through the rating scales or checklists given by the teacher.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of the “school subjects and classroom activities; favourite 
school subjects and classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” 
in their own language. As the pupils are 9-year-old primary school children, they can know what “school 
subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in the past; 
time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” mean in their own language and to be able to express them in 
their own language.  However, they would not know them in a foreign language, in this case English, if they 
were not covered in their existing school curriculum. This knowledge in their own language would prepare 
them to identify the same concepts in their foreign language, English, without speaking any Turkish. It is 
assumed that they have learnt how to ask what things are and how to introduce them using language chunks 
such as “What is your favourite lesson? My favourite lesson is Maths.  What is there at school today? There is 
a talent show at school today.  What is the weather like today? It is windy. What is there on the desk? There is 
a map on the desk” in English from the previous years. These chunks can be used as a basis for learning the 
new language chunks in the current theme making the new chunks easier to learn. This can be an activity 
such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to a song/chant/rhyme and so on which will not require a 
lot of English knowledge and also there will not be a need to speak Turkish. 
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that pupils’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about “classroom life” as a concept in English. Some previous themes from previous years would 
be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “school subjects and 
classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons 
of the year, favourite seasons”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise “classroom life” they learnt 
before. Some language chunks are also revised by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. 
In this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are 
able to understand and use previously learnt vocabulary and language chunks to build their competence in 
the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge 
and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated 
by rubrics and/or checklists.)
Establishing Links
Pupils are asked to recall the current (theme) concept of “classroom life” and its components such as “school 
subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in the past; 
time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons”, by remembering their previous/pre-existing background 
knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with the current 
activities in the theme in English without translating anything until they start learning the target words in the 
current concept in English.  

===== PDF_PAGE_317 =====
317
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept 
various visual materials such as a short digital cartoon, a picture, a poster can be prepared and shown (it 
can be a paper picture format if there are technological problems) before the main teaching/learning flow of 
the lesson begins. The pupils are facilitated through the materials they have learnt the concept of it in the 
previous years with various activities. Then they are asked in simple English what was it about. They get help 
from the teacher to be able remember and say. For example the teacher could show the pictures with the 
words next to them so that pupils can remember some vocabulary and language chunks from the previous 
years. The teacher asks them to wait until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the introductory digital story, without asking any further questions.
One of the example practices could be to point correctly to a picture of the current concept in it when they 
are given instructions by the teacher in simple English.  Pupils give responses by pointing out relevant so-
called pictures without speaking any Turkish but only in very simple English or with mimics and gestures.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about the current theme (in their minds) 
in their own language and the present information about the concept through meaningful contextualised 
activities with visuals within the theme.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME FOR WELL-BEING
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive and 
ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as playing a 
short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, saying a tongue 
twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of 
English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG.4.2.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current 
theme during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “classroom life” in their minds, so 
a further concept check would help them prepare for the current theme (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, CS2.11, 
CS2.16.2). For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and show a card model of a school and 
sets of pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the pupils to point to the pictures in or 
on the model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context of the theme, the introductory 
digital story, that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.8). For each theme, a digitally 
constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through 
the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic 

===== PDF_PAGE_318 =====
318
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
meaning of the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the 
same time. (A 3-D model of classroom life can also be created using Web 2.0 programmes.) They can guess 
the sub-concepts of classroom life, so they can easily understand that the current theme will be “classroom 
life” (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17).
ENG.4.2.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “classroom life 
with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and 
in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” as a whole, without stopping the video at any point, 
so that the pupils can understand the theme/topic holistically (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2,
V3.3, V3.4, V5.2, V16.1, V16.2, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.14, CS2.16.2).
ENG.4.2.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to the 
content about classroom life and its relevant components, some pictures are brought into the classroom by 
the teacher. The teacher brings a necessary number of large boxes for the pictures (some symbols are stuck 
on the boxes for classroom life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and 
classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons) and puts the boxes on 
the table. She/He puts the corresponding picture into the related box when the corresponding vocabulary is 
mentioned in the introductory digital story without stopping the video while the pupils watch the story (V3.2, 
V3.3, V3.4, V5.2, V16.1, V16.2, LS1). When they have watched the whole story, the teacher shows the items in 
the boxes on the table and asks some simple display questions about it. In this way, the teacher could carry 
out a monologue and also engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the 
theme as a whole through its components, which can be used to check their learning as described in item 
(8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, 
V6.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). After watching the introductory digital story, the teacher takes all the pictures out of 
the boxes and puts them back on the table again and says the word “classroom life” several times aloud, and 
the pupils repeat after her/him. In this way, the main vocabulary of the theme “classroom life” is introduced 
to the pupils in English. To remember the sequence of the scenes with the parts, places, and people in the 
“classroom life” in the introductory digital story, the teacher shows the mixed images/pictures of the scenes 
on the Smart Board and asks the pupils to look at the images/ pictures of these scenes for a while (CS2.3). 
She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs with the mixed paper pictures she has already given to 
the pupils (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2) . When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for scenes 
of the story, the teacher asks the pupils to take turns or volunteer to order the scenes on the screen of 
the Smart Board (or the pictures on the blackboard (SELS1.2, V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10).  This 
will help the teacher organise the story as a whole so that the pupils can identify the main theme and the 
components of the theme through their memories (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, CS2.12).
ENG.4.2.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3).

===== PDF_PAGE_319 =====
319
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.2.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “classroom life with school subjects 
and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in the past; time, 
seasons of the year, favourite seasons”, the teacher puts on the table the pictures and boxes that she/he 
has previously used. She/He holds up each picture and asks the pupils to repeat each word aloud a few 
times as a whole class after listening to the recordings she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 
2.0 programmes. She/He puts the picture in the correct box about the group corresponding to the word 
while repeating the words with the whole class (V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V5.2, V16.1, V16.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.16.3). The 
teacher could offer variations with some techniques, such as showing the picture of the target words about 
classroom to the pupils to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear the word 
from the recording, and then both. To help the pupils pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks 
them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in 
large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers, using the shadow technique, in which pupils 
immediately repeat whatever the teacher is saying or the story, without pausing (D1.3, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, 
V3.4, V7.1, LS2, CS2.14).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended with 
different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for the classroom life and its 
components, the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts them out, the pupils repeat 
after her/him (SELS2.1, CS2.6). Then the teacher and the pupils say the target words and act them out 
together at the same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts them out (V3.4, V4.2, V15.1, 
LS4). These “classroom life”-related actions can be done through the actions which can be done in the school, 
but they are only used for acting without teaching them as verbs in English. For instance, they can pretend 
to do things according to the topic. As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, 
sadly, angrily etc. using different tones of voice through TPR techniques (SELS2.3, V11.1, V12.2, LS5, CS2.9). 
Then some groups of pupils say the words, some groups of pupils act them out. While doing the repetitions, 
they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom. Some action 
sequences are also created through which the pupils can practise the social language expressions of the 
theme in a fun way by repeating, pointing, and miming in several games. Several fun pronunciation games 
could be played where pupils whisper a target word into the ears of their peers forming a chain and the 
last person says it aloud and the class checks if the word is pronounced correctly or not (D2.5, SELS2.1, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, V6.2, LS6, CS2.12).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.2.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS : The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract 
from the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading 
sections of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are 
limited reading texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and 
speed reading are used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading 
for detail are used in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases are used 
in a simplified and age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend and 
help talk/write about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language and 
communicative competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3). For the initial stage of 
reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, 
scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory 

===== PDF_PAGE_320 =====
320
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall 
the conceptual meanings they already have about the theme on “classroom life with school subjects and 
classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons 
of the year, favourite seasons”  (V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V5.2, V16.1, V16.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). At this stage, the 
teacher could ask the pupils to read the title/heading of the content and ask the pupils which words they 
already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title by showing them a list of words and 
corresponding pictures to choose the ones they know (SELS1.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.16.2). She/He reminds them 
not to ask for the meanings of new words or the words they do not know. She/He reminds them that this is 
only a recalling activity to check the words they know and that there will be time to work on the new words of 
the new theme later (D3.2, D3.6, V12.1, CS2.10, CS2.12).
ENG.4.2.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 3-D 
house model of “classroom life” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each item, the written form of the word 
is provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words first silently. The teacher then points 
to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole class. Then she/he invites volunteers 
to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of the class read them aloud as a chorus 
(D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG.4.2.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version 
of the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/Smart Board. She/ He 
asks the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14) . From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used 
to understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “classroom life with school subjects and 
classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons 
of the year, favourite seasons” (V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V5.2, V16.1, V16.2, SELS3.1, SELS3.2).  During this process 
pupils work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings (SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.6). This is 
evaluated as described in items (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
ENG.4.2.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: 
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1). The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3).

===== PDF_PAGE_321 =====
321
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.2.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.
ENG.4.2.V2.
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY:  To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to 
the theme “classroom life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and 
classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons”, the teacher asks 
the pupils to watch the introductory digital story again. A scanning activity to find out the main details of 
the introductory digital story (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help pupils to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. 
The activity could be designed by listing some pictures for the vocabulary about the main components of 
the theme that take place in the story/text (V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V5.2, V16.1, V16.2). Pupils circle or tick the 
ones that they have heard, seen and scanned (quickly read) in the story/text. In this way, they will be able 
to understand the story/text in general by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target 
vocabulary items (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then, from the beginning, whenever an item related to 
“classroom life” is mentioned, the teacher stops the video and asks a question in the form of two options by 
showing their pictures (CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what they are based on the pictures, the scene, and 
the sound, pupils hear the English equivalents of the words for the classroom life with school subjects and 
classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons 
of the year, favourite seasons, and they answer as a whole class. In this way, they are introduced to the 
meaning of the target words (D1.1, V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V5.2, V16.1, V16.2, CS2.10). This is done in the form of a 
dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (SELS2.1) (3) and (8) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.2, V14.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.4.2.V3.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “classroom life”, the teacher prepares an activity using the Web 2.0 program with images/
pictures of components of “classroom life”. She/He prepares three boxes on one side of the screen and 
mixed images/ pictures for target vocabulary related to the “classroom life” on the other side. She/He asks 
the pupils to look at the mixed pile of images/pictures on the Smart Board screen and scan them for a while 
to remember them (CS2.4). She/He asks the pupils to drag the objects about the components of the theme 
into the correct box on the screen. The boxes have the words for each component represented on them with 
symbolic pictures. The pupils are given the cut-out pictures and a large sheet of paper with the pictures of 
empty boxes. The teacher asks them to work in pairs and put the cut-out pictures in the right box and ask 
each other several display questions (CS2.5). When the pupils have finished working with the cut-outs and 
asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the 
Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures as the components of the theme “classroom life” 
to the correct empty boxes on the screen (SELS1.2, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant 
to the concept of the theme “classroom life” are consolidated through categorisation. The same activity can 
be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. To practise the 
meanings of the target words about the school, the teacher places several pictures for them in the different 
parts of the classroom. She/He then puts some flashcards with the target vocabulary for “classroom life” on 
the blackboard/whiteboard. She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows it to the pupils. Pupils, working 
in pairs, look at the flashcard, decide which picture on the classroom walls is relevant, they go to the 
picture together, pin the flashcard to the noticeboard and say the word together first in pairs, and then as a 
whole class (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.5). To consolidate the meanings of the new 

===== PDF_PAGE_322 =====
322
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
vocabulary items for the concept of “classroom life”, the teacher could organise several activities in pairs and 
groups with pictures and flashcards such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, etc. (SELS2.2). 
These activities are closed and controlled so that pupils can practise the current (new) vocabulary about the 
current context in the beginning but later they work with simple and easy open-ended and communicative 
activities (D2.5, SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5). This is evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The teacher asks the pupils to 
copy the words in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling using the words written on the model school on the blackboard/
Smart Board (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). This is evaluated as described in items (3) and 
(4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.2.G1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS: To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language chunks 
of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target language chunks 
about the theme “classroom life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and 
classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” (D3.2, CS2.2). While 
the pupils watch the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language 
chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the pupils 
to do the same (CS2.14). She/He could hold up large pictures and ask the pupils questions about the pictures 
with the target chunks expecting the pupils to ask and answer by using the target chunks. To check the 
pupils’ identification of the target language chunks, the teacher shows some picture strips that she/he has 
prepared for this activity, using some Web 2.0 programmes, after the pupils have watched the introductory 
digital story and imitated the actions and said the target language chunks. She/He asks the pupils to listen to 
her/him saying a target language chunk and then to look at the screen and say “Stop!” when they see a scene 
in the picture strips with the target chunk that the teacher has just said (SELS3.1, CS2.7). The teacher stops 
if the pupils are correct, but not if they are not (V3.3, V4.1, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.4.2.G2.
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme “classroom life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and 
classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons”, and writes the 
appropriate language chunks to be used with each of the groups. She/He also provides the vocabulary items 
on the Smart Board screen. The teacher wants the pupils to think for a while and talk with their peers about 
which target words can be used in which language chunk group (SELS2.2, V3.1, V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V5.2, 
V10.3, V16.1, V16.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). Then the pupils go to the board and move the words under the correct 
heading and say the complete sentence with the target words and the chunks. They are then asked to say a 
sentence with the target chunk aloud as a class. Each sentence is repeated after each pair. Their learning 
can be checked as described in items (5), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum. The same game can be played with pictures on the blackboard if there are 
technological/technical problems (D2.5). To organise the pupils’ further practice to consolidate the target 
language chunks, the teacher could create some action sequences in context by repeating, saying, and 
acting out with different activity bundles where their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), 
(9), and (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (CS2.13). There 
is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Pupils can automatically, spontaneously, 
and naturally select and use the target language chunks in the current context (SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, 
LS5, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  For consolidation of the target language chunks, the teacher can facilitate 
more fun activities and games so that the pupils can practise and consolidate them (V4.4, V7.2).

===== PDF_PAGE_323 =====
323
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.2.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by 
using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme 
which is about “classroom life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and 
classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” as in other themes. 
Writing activities are arranged according to age and level so they are quite limited and are gradually expanded 
(V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V5.2, V16.1, V16.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.4.2.W2.
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions with 
a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are asked 
to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they get used 
to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written language 
(D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). To further practise guided and copied writing, the teacher gives 
all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2) (of two, three, four etc.) 
and to write the names of the vocabulary items “classroom life with school subjects and classroom activities; 
favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite 
seasons” next to their drawings on the model related to classroom life. The teacher asks them to look at the 
Smart Board screen with the model related to classroom life that she/he has made earlier so that the pupils 
can easily copy the target words for the items as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.4, V7.3, LS4).
ENG.4.2.W3.
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form of a 
new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/writing 
(copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “classroom life” in fun, enjoyable, 
varied, and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, practical, and appropriate to the 
pupils’ age and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.20).
ENG.4.2.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.4.2.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme “classroom life with school subjects and classroom 
activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, 

===== PDF_PAGE_324 =====
324
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
favourite seasons” from simple to more expanded versions in their writing (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V3.2, V3.3, 
V3.4, V4.2, V5.2, V15.1, V16.1, V16.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various 
activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce simple digital materials and 
projects at school and at home in a variety of ways (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  
These activities can be evaluated as described in items (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.2.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing expression process and asks them to express their  
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15).  Pupils express what they think and feel about 
them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, 
SELS2.2). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and  
collaborative design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.4.2.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language 
including the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme about 
“classroom life with school subjects and classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom 
activities now and in the past; time, seasons of the year, favourite seasons” (V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, V5.2, 
V16.1, V16.2, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.4.2.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6). They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.
ENG.4.2.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo/picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).
ENG.4.2.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. To interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “classroom life with school subjects and 
classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons 
of the year, favourite seasons” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, V5.2, V11.1, V16.1, V16.2, LS1, LS4, 
LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings for 
developing their oral skills (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V3.4, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).

===== PDF_PAGE_325 =====
325
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.2.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:
Pupils communicate with each other by seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target 
words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities 
(SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation 
and revision. These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the 
pupils’ age, interests, and language level. Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively 
and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, 
LS1). Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as 
dialogues, show and tell activities, acting out activities to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar in 
use, and the social language for the theme “classroom life” and its components such as “school subjects and 
classroom activities; favourite school subjects and classroom activities now and in the past; time, seasons 
of the year, favourite seasons” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, V5.2, V7.2, V16.1, V16.2, LS4, 
CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings 
(D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20). These are evaluated as described in items (7), (8), (9), (10), 
(11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can 
expand their language use and practise by communicating with others.
ENG.4.2.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.15).  The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To describe seasons and weather conditions in English by using the target vocabulary and target 
chunks. 
Activity 1: Hat Guessing Game
Pupils work in pairs. One pupil closes their eyes and randomly picks a hat with a picture of a weather condition 
or season on it (e.g., a sunny day, winter snow). The pupil puts the hat on without looking at the picture. Their 
peer looks at the hat and gives clues by saying sentences such as, “It’s cold”, or “It’s cloudy”. The pupil wearing 
the hat guesses by asking questions such as, “Is it snowy?” or “Is it summer?”. Each correct guess earns 
the pair a point. The game continues with pairs taking turns, and the pair with the most points wins. This 
activity practices vocabulary in a fun and interactive way while encouraging speaking and listening skills. 
The teacher provides positive feedback to motivate them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings 
about the activity by using emoticons.

===== PDF_PAGE_326 =====
326
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Supporting
Objective: To describe seasons and weather conditions in English by using the target vocabulary.
Activity 1: Hat Guessing Game with Mimics
Pupils work in pairs. One pupil closes their eyes and picks a hat with a picture of a weather condition or a 
season on it (e.g., a sun for sunny, snowflakes for winter). They put the hat on without seeing the picture. 
Their peer looks at the hat and uses only facial expressions, gestures, or mimics to help the other pupil 
guess the correct word from the list written on the board. To make it easier, the teacher writes all possible 
words (e.g., sunny, rainy, winter, spring) on the board beforehand. For example, if the hat shows “windy”, the 
peer might puff their cheeks and pretend to blow air. The pupil wearing the hat guesses by selecting the word 
from the board. If they guess correctly, the pair earns a point. The game continues with pairs taking turns. 
The teacher provides positive feedback to encourage them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings 
about the activity by using emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE.  

===== PDF_PAGE_327 =====
327
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 3: PERSONAL LIFE
Sub-themes: Physical appearances and personality; 
clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies  and 
abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons
This theme is centred on the concept of “personal life” and covers the sub-themes 
of “physical appearances and personality, clothing and clothing preferences; 
hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons”. These 
components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning process through the 
contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological 
features, and social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities 
are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are 
tailored to align with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and 
preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the 
knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively use English in their 
daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill  
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V8. Privacy, V10. 
Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, V14. Respect, V15. Love and 
Affection, V18. Cleanliness, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Sciences, Visual Arts, Music, Physical Education and 
Games

===== PDF_PAGE_328 =====
328
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. 
Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, 
CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis 
Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_329 =====
329
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 4 is structured based on holistic approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.4.3.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “personal life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing 
preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures and context.
ENG.4.3.L2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “personal life with physical 
appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now 
and in the past; weather; comparisons” together with key details and main components while 
listening/watching it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.4.3.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “personal life with 
physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities 
now and in the past; weather; comparisons” through details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age- and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school. 
ENG.4.3.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “personal 
life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies 
and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons” in a very simple way.
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_330 =====
330
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.3.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“personal life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; 
hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons” accurately, authentically, 
and naturally through spontaneous selection and using it in an appropriate and effective way 
when communicating with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.4.3.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“personal life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; 
hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.4.3.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “personal life with physical 
appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now 
and in the past; weather; comparisons” through skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-visual 
elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.4.3.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “personal life 
with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and 
abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons” by reading it carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it in 
a simple and meaningful way.
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.

===== PDF_PAGE_331 =====
331
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.
ENG.4.3.R4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the reading-
comprehension process about the current content, “personal life with physical appearances 
and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; 
weather; comparisons” for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both individually 
and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.4.3.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “personal life 
with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and 
abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, 
and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.4.3.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the current 
content about “personal life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing 
preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons” accurately, 
authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when 
communicating with others.
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.

===== PDF_PAGE_332 =====
332
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically 
and by pointing.
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.4.3.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “personal 
life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies 
and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons” in an age and level-appropriate way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.4.3.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on “personal 
life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies 
and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons” based on the model/example 
provided to practise for further writing activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.4.3.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“personal life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; 
hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons” based on the model/
example provided.
a) Pupils organise a very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.4.3.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the 
current content “personal life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and 
clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons”.
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 
ENG.4.3.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks about the 
“personal life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; 
hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons” to communicate with other 
people.

===== PDF_PAGE_333 =====
333
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully and individually reorganising it.
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.
ENG.4.3.W.6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “personal life with physical appearances and 
personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; 
weather; comparisons” very simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both 
individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.4.3.S1.  Pupils can get ready for the speaking-expression process about the current content on 
“personal life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; 
hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons” with the help of supplementary 
audio-visual materials.
a) Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and imitation after 
completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used during the 
initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current content.
ENG.4.3.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme on 
“personal life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; 
hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.4.3.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “personal life with physical appearances 
and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; 
weather; comparisons” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.
ENG.4.3.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “personal life with physical appearances and 
personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; 
weather; comparisons” through reconstruction by speaking accurately, efficiently, and 
authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).

===== PDF_PAGE_334 =====
334
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.
ENG.4.3.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “personal life with 
physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities 
now and in the past; weather; comparisons” by reconstructing it to communicate with other 
people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.
b) Pupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.
ENG.4.3.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “personal life with physical appearances and 
personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; 
weather; comparisons” very simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both 
individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_335 =====
335
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
PERSONAL LIFE:
Sub-themes: physical appearances and personality, clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities 
now and in the past; weather; comparisons
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Parts of the body: A stomach, a moustache, a beard, a tongue, a finger (s), a neck, a shoulder(s), a knee(s), a 
toe(s).
Adjectives: Thick, thin, huge, fair, wavy, bright, medium, round.
Personal traits for comparing people: Angry, kind, funny, friendly, clever, quiet, brave, careful, naughty, 
sweet.
Verbs for preferences about body parts, clothes, and dressing: (To like, to dislike) to enjoy, to prefer.
Infinitives after preference verbs:  I prefer to wear /wearing cardigans.
Dates with ordinal numbers: 1st, 2nd, 3rd… 20th 
Clothes:  A wardrobe, Tops: a blouse, a hoodie Bottoms: shorts, leggings; Dresses: a dress, a sundress; 
Outwear: a raincoat, a cardigan; Footwear: sandals, slippers, flip-flops, trainers (sneakers-AmE.), flats; 
Sleepwear: pyjamas (pajamas-AmE.) Accessories: a bracelet, a ring, a tie, a belt, gloves, a helmet, a scarf, 
sunglasses.
Weather: Cloudy, foggy, cool, stormy, clear, misty, freezing, humid.
Quantifiers: All, both, none, no.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Language Chunks in Use:
The Simple Past Tense (+) (-) (?) (with regular verbs):
Language Chunks: (What did you do at school/home yesterday? I played games at school yesterday).
Functions: Describing completed actions or events that happened in the past. 
“To be” in the Simple Past Tense (was, were): 
Language Chunks: 
(What were your hobbies when you were 6? My hobbies were playing basketball and playing the piano. How 
old were you last year? I was 8 years old last year. When was your birthday? It was on 5th March (fifth of 
March)). 
Functions: Asking and answering about past states, ages, events, and personal experiences.
Could for ability in the past: 
Language Chunks: (What could you do when you were 6? I could play the piano when I was 6. What sports 
could you play when you were 7? I could play basketball when I was 7).
Functions: Describing abilities or skills someone had in the past.
Comparative Adjectives (Regular & Irregular): 
(Who was taller than you at six? My sister was taller than me at six. Who was more hardworking? My sister 
was more hardworking than me).
Function: Comparing people, animals, places, or things using adjectives to show differences in quality, size, 
or degree.

===== PDF_PAGE_336 =====
336
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Background Language Chunks in Use:
“To be”-present (am-is-are):
Language Chunks:
(How old are you? I’m/am nine years old).
(When is your birthday? It’s 5th March (fifth of March)).
(What are your hobbies? My hobbies are basketball, volleyball, and table tennis).
(What’s/is your favourite cloth?  My favourite (clothing) is my blue dress. My blue dress is my favourite cloth/
clothing). 
Functions: Asking and answering about ages of people, birthday celebrations, physical clothing, dressing 
and appearance, preferences for clothing and dressing.
The Present Progressive Tense:
Language Chunks: (What are you wearing today? I’m/am wearing a blue cardigan today).
Functions: Describing what clothing people are wearing.
The Present Simple Tense:
Language Chunks: (What does she look like? She’s/is tall and beautiful.
What kind of clothing do you like? I like short cardigans).
(What are your hobbies? My hobbies are playing basketball and volleyball).
Functions: Describing physical appearance, preferences for clothing, hobbies, daily routines at home and 
at school.
Articles: A, an, the.
Function: Indicating whether a noun is specific or nonspecific, and distinguishing singular countable nouns. 
Pronouns: Something, anything.
Function: Referring to unspecified or unknown things in affirmative, negative, or interrogative contexts.
Target Social Language in Use:
It fits like a glove!
That’s crazy!
What’s new?
Keep in touch, please!
Feel free to use this!
Go ahead!
It’s not fair!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Vowel:  i
Consonants: f, g, h, j
Vowel: i: (/aı/, /ı/, /i:/)
Consonants: f: (/f/); g: (/g/, /dʒ/); h: (/h/); j: (/dʒeɪ/, /dʒ/)
*No pronunciation symbols will be included in any material written for the pupils, (only) the sounds will be 
practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations 
The concept of “personal life” is present in almost all languages because it is one of the most basic parts 
of almost all human beings’ lives and all children’s lives in different parts of the world. People who start to 
learn a new language bring with them their previous/pre-existing knowledge and transfer it to their new 
language learning. So, a primary school pupil in year 4 will know what “personal life” means as a concept but 
will not know its equivalents in another language if it has not been covered in their existing foreign language 
curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, 
and learn it more easily in a foreign language, English in this case.

===== PDF_PAGE_337 =====
337
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Key Concepts:
Appearance, physical appearance, clothing, preferences, clothing preferences, celebration, personal 
celebration, hobbies, abilities, now, past, hobbies now, abilities now, hobbies in the past, abilities in the 
past, hobbies and abilities in the past.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Pupils will design a brochure titled “All About Me”. The brochure will include 
sections on their physical appearance, favourite clothing, hobbies, and memorable birthday celebrations 
in a simple way. They should use the target vocabulary and language chunks, such as “I’ve/have got short 
hair” “I’ve/have got glasses” or “My favourite clothing is my red cardigan”. Pupils will also include a past event 
using sentences like, “I was eight years old last year and I enjoyed playing football”. The brochure can include 
drawings, photos, or other visuals. pupils will briefly share their brochures with the class. The class will rate 
the presentations through the rating scales or checklists given by the teacher.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of the “physical appearances and personality, clothing 
and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons” in their own 
language. As the pupils are 9-year-old primary school children, they can know what “physical appearances 
and personality, clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; 
comparisons” mean in their own language and to be able to express them in their own language.  However, 
they would not know them in a foreign language, in this case English, if they were not covered in their existing 
school curriculum. This knowledge in their own language would prepare them to identify the same concepts 
in their foreign language, English, without speaking any Turkish. It is assumed that they have learnt how to 
ask what things are and how to introduce them using language chunks such as “What are your hobbies? I like 
table tennis/ basketball. How old are you? I am 9 years old. When is your birthday? It is on 5th March (fifth 
of March). What do you do at school/home every day? I play games at school every day. What can you do? I 
can play the piano” in English from the previous themes or themes from the previous years. These chunks 
can be used as a basis for learning the new language chunks in the current theme making the new chunks 
easier to learn. This can be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to a song/chant/
rhyme and so on which will not require any complex English knowledge and also there will not be a need to 
speak Turkish. 
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that pupils’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about “personal life” as a concept in English. Some previous themes from previous years would be 
helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “physical appearances 
and personality, clothing, birthdays, and hobbies”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise the 
content about theme they learnt before. Some language chunks are also revised by giving instructions in 
English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they 
remember and how much they are able to understand and use previously learnt vocabulary and language 
chunks to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise 
in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current 
theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics and/or checklists).
Establishing Links
Pupils Pupils are asked to recall the current (theme) concept of “personal life” and its components such as 
“physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in 
the past; weather; comparisons”, by remembering their previous/pre-existing background knowledge about 
it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with the current activities in the theme 

===== PDF_PAGE_338 =====
338
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
in English without translating anything until they start learning the target words in the current concept in 
English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept 
various visual materials such as a short digital cartoon, a picture, a poster can be prepared and shown (it 
can be a paper picture format if there are technological problems) before the main teaching/learning flow of 
the lesson begins. The pupils are facilitated through the materials they have learnt the concept of it in the 
previous years with various activities. Then they are asked in simple English what was it about. They get help 
from the teacher to be able remember and say. For example the teacher could show the pictures with the 
words next to them so that pupils can remember some vocabulary and language chunks from the previous 
years. The teacher asks them to wait until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the introductory digital story, without asking any further questions.
One of the example practices could be to point correctly to a picture of the current concept in it when they 
are given instructions by the teacher in simple English.  Pupils give responses by pointing out relevant so-
called pictures without speaking any Turkish but only in very simple English or with mimics and gestures.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about the current theme (in their minds) 
in their own language and the present information about the concept through meaningful contextualised 
activities with visuals within the theme.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME FOR WELL-BEING
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive and 
ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as playing a 
short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, saying a tongue 
twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of 
English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG.4.3.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current 
theme during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “personal life” in their minds, so a 
further concept check would help them prepare for the current theme (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, CS2.11, 
CS2.16.2). For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and show a card model of a school and 
sets of pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the pupils to point to the pictures in or 
on the model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context of the theme, the introductory 

===== PDF_PAGE_339 =====
339
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
digital story, that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.8). For each theme, a digitally 
constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through 
the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic 
meaning of the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the 
same time. (A 3-D model of personal life can also be created using Web 2.0 programmes.) They can guess 
the sub-concepts of personal life, so they can easily understand that the current theme will be “personal life” 
(D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17).
ENG.4.3.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “personal life 
with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and 
in the past; weather; comparisons” as a whole, without stopping the video at any point, so that the pupils 
can understand the theme/topic holistically (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.3, V8.1, V10.1, V10.2, V10.3, V14.1, V14.2, V18.1 
LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.14, CS2.16.2).
ENG.4.3.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to 
the content about personal life and its relevant components, some pictures are brought into the classroom 
by the teacher. The teacher brings a necessary number of large boxes for the pictures (some symbols 
are stuck on the boxes for personal life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing 
preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons) and puts the boxes on the 
table. She/He puts the corresponding picture into the related box when the corresponding vocabulary is 
mentioned in the introductory digital story without stopping the video while the pupils watch the story 
(V3.3, LS1). When they have watched the whole story, the teacher shows the items in the boxes on the table 
and asks some simple display questions about it. In this way, the teacher could carry out a monologue and 
also engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the theme as a whole 
through its components, which can be used to check their learning as described in item (8) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, V6.1, LS2, LS4, 
CS2.8)). After watching the introductory digital story, the teacher takes all the pictures out of the boxes 
and puts them back on the table again and says the word “personal life” several times aloud, and the pupils 
repeat after her/him. In this way, the main vocabulary of the theme “personal life” is introduced to the pupils 
in English. To remember the sequence of the scenes with the parts, places, and people in the “personal 
life” in the introductory digital story, the teacher shows the mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the 
Smart Board and asks the pupils to look at the images/ pictures of these scenes for a while (CS2.3). She/
He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs with the mixed paper pictures she has already given to the 
pupils (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2). When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for scenes of the 
story, the teacher asks the pupils to take turns or volunteer to order the scenes on the screen of the Smart 
Board (or the pictures on the blackboard (SELS1.2, V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10). This will help the 
teacher organise the story as a whole so that the pupils can identify the main theme and the components of 
the theme through their memories (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, CS2.12).
ENG.4.3.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 

===== PDF_PAGE_340 =====
340
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
think and feel about them (CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3).
ENG.4.3.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “personal life with physical appearances 
and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; 
comparisons”, the teacher puts on the table the pictures and boxes that she/he has previously used. She/
He holds up each picture and asks the pupils to repeat each word aloud a few times as a whole class after 
listening to the recordings she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes. She/He puts 
the picture in the correct box about the group corresponding to the word while repeating the words with the 
whole class (V3.4, V8.1, V10.1, V10.2, V10.3, V14.1, V14.2, V18.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer 
variations with some techniques, such as showing the picture of the target words about personal life to the 
pupils to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the recording, 
and then both. To help the pupils pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each 
target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in large groups, then in 
small groups and then again as volunteers, using the shadow technique, in which pupils immediately repeat 
whatever the teacher is saying or the story, without pausing (D1.3, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V3.4, V7.1, LS2 CS2.14).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended with 
different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for the personal life and its 
components, the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts them out, the pupils repeat 
after her/him (SELS2.1, CS2.6). Then the teacher and the pupils say the target words and act them out 
together at the same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts them out (V3.4, V4.2, V15.1, 
LS4). These “personal life”-related actions can be done through the actions which can be done in the school, 
but they are only used for acting without teaching them as verbs in English. For instance, they can pretend 
to do things according to the topic. As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, 
sadly, angrily etc. using different tones of voice through TPR techniques (SELS2.3, V11.1, V12.2, LS5, CS2.9). 
Then some groups of pupils say the words, some groups of pupils act them out. While doing the repetitions, 
they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom. Some action 
sequences are also created through which the pupils can practise the social language expressions of the 
theme in a fun way by repeating, pointing, and miming in several games. Several fun pronunciation games 
could be played where pupils whisper a target word into the ears of their peers forming a chain and the 
last person says it aloud and the class checks if the word is pronounced correctly or not (D2.5, SELS2.1, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, V6.2, LS6, CS2.12).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.3.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS : The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract from 
the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading sections 
of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are limited reading 
texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and speed reading are 
used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading for detail are used 
in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases are used in a simplified and 
age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase comprehension, 
improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend and help talk/write 

===== PDF_PAGE_341 =====
341
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language and communicative 
competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3) . For the initial stage of reading, the 
teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title 
of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory story or a new 
text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the conceptual 
meanings they already have about the theme on “personal life with physical appearances and personality; 
clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons” (V3.3, 
V8.1, V10.1, V10.2, V10.3, V14.1, V14.2, V18.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). At this stage, the teacher could ask the pupils 
to read the title/heading of the content and ask the pupils which words they already know, and which come 
to mind in connection with the title by showing them a list of words and corresponding pictures to choose 
the ones they know (SELS1.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.16.2). She/He reminds them not to ask for the meanings of new 
words or the words they do not know. She/He reminds them that this is only a recalling activity to check the 
words they know and that there will be time to work on the new words of the new theme later (D3.2, D3.6, 
V12.1, CS2.10, CS2.12).
ENG.4.3.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 
3-D house model of “personal life” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each item, the written form of the 
word is provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words first silently. The teacher 
then points to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole class. Then she/he invites 
volunteers to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of the class read them aloud 
as a chorus (D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG.4.3.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version 
of the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/Smart Board. She/ He 
asks the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones (SELS2.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14) . From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used 
to understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “personal life with physical appearances 
and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; 
comparisons” (SELS3.1, SELS3.2). During this process pupils work collaboratively to exchange information, 
thoughts, and feelings (SELS2.2, V4.2, V8.1, V10.1, V10.2, V10.3, V14.1, V14.2, V18.1, CS2.6). This is evaluated 
as described in items (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.
ENG.4.3.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: 
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1). The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3).

===== PDF_PAGE_342 =====
342
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.3.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.
ENG.4.3.V2.
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to the 
theme “personal life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies 
and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons”, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory 
digital story again. A scanning activity to find out the main details of the introductory digital story (and/or a 
new text in the reading section) is organised to help pupils to know more about the content. This could help 
them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The activity could be designed by listing 
some pictures for the vocabulary about the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text 
(V3.3, V3.4, V8.1, V10.1, V10.2, V10.3, V14.1, V14.2, V18.1). Pupils circle or tick the ones that they have heard, 
seen and scanned (quickly read) in the story/text. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text 
in general by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items (D3.2, D3.6, 
CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then, from the beginning, whenever an item related to “personal life” is mentioned, the 
teacher stops the video and asks a question in the form of two options by showing their pictures (CS2.16.1, 
CS2.6). By guessing what they are based on the pictures, the scene, and the sound, pupils hear the English 
equivalents of the words for the personal life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and 
clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons, and they answer as 
a whole class. In this way, they are introduced to the meaning of the target words (D1.1, CS2.10). This is done 
in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (SELS2.1) (3) and (8) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.2, V8.1, V10.1, V10.2, V10.3, 
V14.1, V14.2, V18.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.4.3.V3.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “personal life”, the teacher prepares an activity using the Web 2.0 program with images/
pictures of components of “personal life”. She/He prepares three boxes on one side of the screen and mixed 
images/ pictures for target vocabulary related to the “personal life” on the other side. She/He asks the 
pupils to look at the mixed pile of images/pictures on the Smart Board screen and scan them for a while to 
remember them (CS2.4). She/He asks the pupils to drag the objects about the components of the theme 
into the correct box on the screen. The boxes have the words for each component represented on them with 
symbolic pictures. The pupils are given the cut-out pictures and a large sheet of paper with the pictures of 
empty boxes. The teacher asks them to work in pairs and put the cut-out pictures in the right box and ask 
each other several display questions (CS2.5). When the pupils have finished working with the cut-outs and 
asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the 
Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures as the components of the theme “personal life” 
to the correct empty boxes on the screen (SELS1.2, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant 
to the concept of the theme “personal life” are consolidated through categorisation. The same activity 
can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. To practise 
the meanings of the target words about the school, the teacher places several pictures for them in the 
different parts of the classroom. She/He then puts some flashcards with the target vocabulary for “personal 
life” on the blackboard/whiteboard. She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows it to the pupils. Pupils, 
working in pairs, look at the flashcard, decide which picture on the classroom walls is relevant, they go to the 
picture together, pin the flashcard to the noticeboard and say the word together first in pairs, and then as a 
whole class (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.5). To consolidate the meanings of the new 

===== PDF_PAGE_343 =====
343
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
vocabulary items for the concept of “personal life”, the teacher could organise several activities in pairs and 
groups with pictures and flashcards such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, etc. (SELS2.2). 
These activities are closed and controlled so that pupils can practise the current (new) vocabulary about the 
current context in the beginning but later they work with simple and easy open-ended and communicative 
activities (D2.5, SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5). This is evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The teacher asks the pupils to 
copy the words in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling using the words written on the model school on the blackboard/
Smart Board (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). This is evaluated as described in items (3) and 
(4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.3.G1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS:  To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target 
language chunks about the theme “personal life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and 
clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons” (D3.2, CS2.2). While 
the pupils watch the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language 
chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the pupils 
to do the same (CS2.14). She/He could hold up large pictures and ask the pupils questions about the pictures 
with the target chunks expecting the pupils to ask and answer by using the target chunks. To check the 
pupils’ identification of the target language chunks, the teacher shows some picture strips that she/he has 
prepared for this activity, using some Web 2.0 programmes, after the pupils have watched the introductory 
digital story and imitated the actions and said the target language chunks. She/He asks the pupils to listen 
to her/him saying a target language chunk and then to look at the screen and say “Stop!” when they see a 
scene in the picture strips with the target chunk that the teacher has just said (SELS3.1, CS2.7). The teacher 
stops if the pupils are correct, but not if they are not (V3.3, V4.1, V7.1, V8.1, V10.1, V10.2, V10.3, V14.1, V14.2, 
V18.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.4.3.G2.
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme “personal life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; 
hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons”, and writes the appropriate language chunks 
to be used with each of the groups. She/He also provides the vocabulary items on the Smart Board screen. 
The teacher wants the pupils to think for a while and talk with their peers about which target words can be 
used in which language chunk group (SELS2.2, V3.1, V8.1, V10.1, V10.2, V10.3, V14.1, V14.2, V18.1, LS1, LS4, 
CS2.4). Then the pupils go to the board and move the words under the correct heading and say the complete 
sentence with the target words and the chunks. They are then asked to say a sentence with the target chunk 
aloud as a class. Each sentence is repeated after each pair. Their learning can be checked as described in 
items (5), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The 
same game can be played with pictures on the blackboard if there are technological/technical problems 
(D2.5). To organise the pupils’ further practice to consolidate the target language chunks, the teacher 
could create some action sequences in context by repeating, saying, and acting out with different activity 
bundles where their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (CS2.13). There is no analysis or teaching of 
grammatical structures at this stage. Pupils can automatically, spontaneously, and naturally select and use 
the target language chunks in the current context (SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, LS5, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2). 
For consolidation of the target language chunks, the teacher can facilitate more fun activities and games so 
that the pupils can practise and consolidate them (V4.4, V7.2).

===== PDF_PAGE_344 =====
344
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.3.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by 
using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme 
which is about “personal life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; 
hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons” as in other themes. Writing activities are 
arranged according to age and level so they are quite limited and are gradually expanded (V3.2, V3.4, V8.1, 
V10.1, V10.2, V10.3, V14.1, V14.2, V18.1, LS1, LS4).
ENG.4.3.W2.
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions with 
a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are asked 
to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they get used 
to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written language 
(D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). To further practise guided and copied writing, the teacher gives 
all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2) (of two, three, four etc.) 
and to write the names of the vocabulary items “personal life with physical appearances and personality; 
clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons” next 
to their drawings on the model related to personal life. The teacher asks them to look at the Smart Board 
screen with the model related to personal life that she/he has made earlier so that the pupils can easily copy 
the target words for the items as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of 
the English Curriculum (V4.4, V7.3, V8.1, V10.1, V10.2, V10.3, V14.1, V14.2, V18.1, LS4).
ENG.4.3.W3.
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form of a 
new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/writing 
(copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “personal life” in fun, enjoyable, varied, 
and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, practical, and appropriate to the pupils’ age 
and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.20).
ENG.4.3.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.4.3.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme “personal life with physical appearances 
and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; 

===== PDF_PAGE_345 =====
345
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
comparisons” from simple to more expanded versions in their writing (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V4.2, V8.1, V10.1, 
V10.2, V10.3, V14.1, V14.2, V15.1, V18.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various 
activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce simple digital materials and 
projects at school and at home in a variety of ways (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  
These activities can be evaluated as described in items (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.3.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing expression process and asks them to express their  
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15).  Pupils express what they think and feel about 
them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, 
SELS2.2). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and  
collaborative design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.4.3.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language 
including the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme 
about “personal life with physical appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies 
and abilities now and in the past; weather; comparisons” (V3.2, V4.2, V8.1, V10.1, V10.2, V10.3, V14.1, V14.2, 
V18.1, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.4.3.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6). They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.
ENG.4.3.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo/picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).
ENG.4.3.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. To interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “personal life with physical appearances 
and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; weather; 
comparisons” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V8.1, V10.1, V10.2, V10.3, V11.1, V14.1, V14.2, V18.1, LS1, LS4, 
LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings for 
developing their oral skills (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V3.4, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).

===== PDF_PAGE_346 =====
346
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.3.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:
Pupils communicate with each other by seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target 
words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities 
(SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation 
and revision. These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the 
pupils’ age, interests, and language level. Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively 
and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, 
LS1). Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such 
as dialogues, show and tell activities, acting out activities to interact and to communicate with peers 
and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “personal life” and its components such as “physical 
appearances and personality; clothing and clothing preferences; hobbies and abilities now and in the past; 
weather; comparisons” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V7.2, V8.1, V10.1, V10.2, V10.3, V14.1, V14.2, V18.1, LS4, 
CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings 
(D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20). These are evaluated as described in items (7), (8), (9), (10), 
(11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can 
expand their language use and practise by communicating with others.
ENG.4.3.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.15).  The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To describe and talk about clothing and clothing preferences in English by using the target 
vocabulary and target chunks. 
Activity 1: Design the Character
Each pupil is given a paragraph describing a character’s physical appearance, clothing, and personality 
traits. For example: “The character has wavy hair and blue eyes. She/He is wearing a raincoat, leggings, and 
slippers. She/He is very kind and enjoys quiet activities”. Pupils use the description to design the character 
on a blank person template. They cut out pictures such as hairstyles, clothing, and accessories from the 
provided sheets, paste them onto the template, and label the parts, such as “raincoat” or “blue eyes”. After 
completing the activity, pupils present their character by reading the paragraph. The teacher provides 
positive feedback to motivate them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using 
emoticons. 

===== PDF_PAGE_347 =====
347
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Supporting
Objective: To describe clothing and clothing preferences in English by using the target vocabulary.
Activity 1: Design Your Character
Pupils receive a blank person template and a sheet with pictures of clothing items, hairstyles, and eye 
colours. They cut out their chosen items, paste them onto the template, and label them with arrows, such 
as “raincoat”, “blue eyes”, or “short hair”. After completing their characters, they describe them with simple 
sentences such as, “My character has blue eyes and is wearing a cardigan”. Then, their works are displayed 
on the classroom notice board. The teacher provides positive feedback to motivate them. Pupils reflect on 
their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_348 =====
348
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 4: FAMILY LIFE 
Sub-themes: Family members’ jobs; family members’ 
long-lasting habits; family members’ errands (now and 
in the past); places for services in the neighbourhood; 
comparisons 
This theme is centred on the concept of “family life” and covers the sub-themes 
of “family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ 
errands (now and in the past); places for services in the neighbourhood; 
comparisons”. These components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning 
process through the contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical 
structures, phonological features, and social language expressions. The 
learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, 
and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ developmental 
level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to 
equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively 
use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V2. Family Integrity, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, 
V7. Aesthetics, V8. Privacy, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V14. Respect, V15. Love and Affection, V16. Responsibility, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_349 =====
349
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Visual Arts, Music, Physical Education and 
Games
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. 
Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, 
CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis 
Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_350 =====
350
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 4 is structured based on holistic approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.4.4.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “family life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family 
members’ errands; places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures and context.
ENG.4.4.L2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “family life with family members’ 
jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands; places for services 
in the neighbourhood; comparisons” together with key details and main components while 
listening/watching it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.4.4.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “family life with 
family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands; places 
for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons” through details by listening/watching it 
carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age- and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school.
ENG.4.4.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “family life 
with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands; 
places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons” in a very simple way.
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_351 =====
351
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.
ENG.4.4.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“family life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ 
errands; places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons” accurately, authentically, 
and naturally through spontaneous selection and using it in an appropriate and effective way 
when communicating with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.4.4.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“family life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ 
errands; places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.4.4.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “family life with family members’ 
jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands; places for services in 
the neighbourhood; comparisons” through skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-visual 
elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.4.4.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “family life with 
family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands; places 
for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons” by reading it carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it 
in a simple and meaningful way.

===== PDF_PAGE_352 =====
352
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.
ENG.4.4.R4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “family life with family members’ 
jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands; places for services in 
the neighbourhood; comparisons” for reflection in relation to themselves or others, both 
individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.4.4.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “family life with 
family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands; places 
for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, 
and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.4.4.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the current 
content about “family life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; 
family members’ errands; places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons” accurately, 
authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when 
communicating with others.
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.

===== PDF_PAGE_353 =====
353
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically 
and by pointing.
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.4.4.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “family 
life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands; 
places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons” in an age- and level-appropriate way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.4.4.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on “family 
life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands; 
places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons” based on the model/example 
provided to practise for further writing activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.4.4.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“family life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ 
errands; places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons” based on the model/
example provided.
a) Pupils organise a very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.4.4.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the 
current content “family life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; 
family members’ errands; places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons”.
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 

===== PDF_PAGE_354 =====
354
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 
ENG.4.4.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks 
about the “family life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family 
members’ errands; places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons” to communicate 
with other people.
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully, and individually reorganising it.
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.
ENG.4.4.W6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “family life with family members’ jobs; 
family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands; places for services in the 
neighbourhood; comparisons” very simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, 
both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.4.4.S1.  Pupils can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “family 
life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands; 
places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons” with the help of supplementary 
audio-visual materials.
a) Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and imitation after 
completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used during the 
initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current content.
ENG.4.4.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme 
on “family life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ 
errands; places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.4.4.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “family life with family members’ jobs; 
family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands; places for services in the 
neighbourhood; comparisons” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.
ENG.4.4.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “family life with family members’ jobs; 
family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands; places for services in the 
neighbourhood; comparisons” through reconstruction by speaking accurately, efficiently, 
and authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_355 =====
355
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.
ENG.4.4.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “family life with family 
members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands; places for 
services in the neighbourhood; comparisons” by reconstructing it to communicate with other 
people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.
b) Pupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.
ENG.4.4.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “family life with family members’ jobs; 
family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands; places for services in the 
neighbourhood; comparisons” very simply for reflection in relation to themselves or others, 
both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_356 =====
356
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
FAMILY LIFE:
Sub-themes: Family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands (now and 
in the past); places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons.
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Family members:  Grandpa, grandma, mummy (mommy-AmE.), daddy, women, men, a person, people.
Jobs: A teacher, a doctor, a farmer, a dentist, an imam, a nurse, a police officer, a scientist, a singer, a 
waiter/waitress, a shop assistant, a secretary, a cook (chef), a worker, a writer, an artist, a cleaner, a driver.
Action verbs for jobs: To teach, to check, to grow, to help, to test, to sing, to sell, to write, to cook, to build, 
to draw, to paint, to clean, to drive.
Places and services in the neighbourhood: A theatre, a hospital, a restaurant, a museum, a park, a bank, 
a café, a library, a city, a shop, a hotel, a market, a station, a cinema, a post office, a chemist’s (pharmacy-
AmE.), a hairdresser’s, a barber’s, a greengrocer’s, a bakery, a butcher’s.
Action verbs for daily errands: To do the/to go shopping, to buy groceries, to pick up children from school, to 
take the rubbish (trash-AmE.) out, to take the dog for a walk, to help, to set the table.
Long-lasting habits: To read before bed, to visit the library every Saturday, to garden on Sundays, to watch 
films on Sundays, to ride a bike on Saturdays, to go for a walk, to drink milk every morning, to go to the 
cinema every Saturday, to meet friends, to listen to music.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Language Chunks in Use: 
The Simple Past Tense (+) (-) (?) (with irregular verbs):
Language Chunks: (What did you read at home last night? I read a new book about animals last night).
Functions: Describing completed actions or events that happened in the past. 
Comparisons with the regular forms of adjectives-Superlatives: 
(Who is the kindest person in your family? My brother is the kindest person in our family).
Functions: Describing one person, animal, place, or thing as having the highest or lowest degree of a quality 
among three or more. 
Like+love+Ving:  
(What do you like doing at the weekend?  I like riding my bike and playing football with my friends. What does 
your sister love doing? She loves reading books and drawing pictures).
Function: To express preferences, interests, or enjoyment of activities.
Background  Language Chunks in Use:
 “To be”-present:
Language Chunks: 
(What’s/is your father’s job? He’s/is a doctor). (What’s/is your favourite habit? My favourite habit is reading).
Functions: Asking and answering about professions; expressing likes, interests, or personal habits.

===== PDF_PAGE_357 =====
357
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
The Present Progressive Tense:
Language Chunks:  (What are you doing today? I’m/am going to the shops).
Functions: Describing ongoing actions, habits, errands or temporary activities in the present.
The Present Simple Tense:
Language Chunks: (What does your mother do (for a living?) She’s/is a teacher). 
(How often do you go for a walk? I go for a walk every Sunday).
Functions: Describing professions or habitual actions; expressing regular or repeated actions and their 
frequency.
Target Language Chunks in Use:
Target Social Language in Use:
That’s great!
Good job!
Catch you later!
Sounds fun!
Not this time.
Calm down!
Don’t worry!
You look so cool!
Go ahead!
Excellent!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Vowel: o
Consonants: k, l, m, n, p
Vowel: o: (/əʊ/, /ɒ/, /əʊ/)
Consonants:  k: (/k/); l: (/ɛl/ /l/); m: (/ɛm/,/m/);  n: (/ɛn/, /n/); p: (/piː/, /p/)
*No pronunciation symbols will be included in any material written for the pupils, (only) the sounds will be 
practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations 
The concept of “family life” is present in almost all languages because it is one of the most basic parts of 
almost all human beings’ and children’s lives in different parts of the world. People who start to learn a 
new language bring with them their previous/pre-existing knowledge and transfer it to their new language 
learning. So, a primary school pupil in year 4 will know what “family life” means as a concept but will not know 
its equivalents in another language if it has not been covered in their existing foreign language curriculum.  
However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn it 
more easily in a foreign language, English in this case.
Key Concepts:
Jobs, habits, errands, members, family members, family members’ jobs, family members’ long-lasting habits, 
family members’ errands, services, places, neighbourhood, places for services, places for neighbourhood, 
places for services in the neighbourhood, comparisons.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Pupils will create a poster or a flyer about their family. They will include 
pictures or drawings of their family members, their jobs, and long-lasting habits. They will write short 
descriptions like, “My dad is a doctor, and he helps people every day” or “My mom likes to read before bed”. 
Pupils will also add information about family errands, such as, “We always go shopping on Saturdays”. The 
poster will feature a map of their neighbourhood showing places like the hospital, the park, or the library, 
where their family members often go. Pupils will present their posters to the class, explaining each part in 

===== PDF_PAGE_358 =====
358
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
their own words. The class will rate the presentations through the rating scales or checklists given by the 
teacher.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of the “family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting 
habits; family members’ errands; places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons” in their own 
language. As the pupils are 9-year-old primary school children, they can know what “family members’ jobs; 
family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands; places for services in the neighbourhood; 
comparisons” mean in their own language and to be able to express them in their own language.  However, 
they would not know them in a foreign language, in this case English, if they were not covered in their existing 
school curriculum. This knowledge in their own language would prepare them to identify the same concepts 
in their foreign language, English, without speaking any Turkish. It is assumed that they have learnt some 
basic things to talk about what things are and what people do etc. by using language chunks such as “Do you 
live in this neighbourhood? Yes, we live here. Do you watch this series? Yes, I do. No, I don’t. What’s/is you 
father’s job? He’s/is a doctor” in English from the previous themes or years. These chunks can be used as a 
basis for learning the new language chunks in the current theme making the new chunks easier to learn. This 
can be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to a song/chant/rhyme and so on which 
will not require any further English knowledge and also there will not be a need to speak Turkish. 
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that pupils’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about “family life” as a concept in English. Some previous themes from previous years would be 
helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “family life”. Therefore, a 
dialogue game can be played to revise some words and chunks about “family life” they learnt before. In this 
way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able 
to understand and use previously learnt vocabulary and language chunks to build their competence in the 
current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge 
and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated 
by rubrics and/or checklists.)
Establishing Links
Pupils are asked to recall the current (theme) concept of “family life” and its components such as “family 
members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands (now and in the past); places 
for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons”, by remembering their previous/pre-existing background 
knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with the current 
activities in the theme in English without translating anything until they start learning the target words in 
the current concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept 
various visual materials such as a short digital cartoon, a picture, a poster can be prepared and shown (it 
can be a paper picture format if there are technological problems) before the main teaching/learning flow of 
the lesson begins. The pupils are facilitated through the materials they have learnt the concept of it in the 
previous years with various activities. Then they are asked in simple English what was it about. They get help 
from the teacher to be able remember and say. For example the teacher could show the pictures with the 
words next to them so that pupils can remember some vocabulary and language chunks from the previous 
years. The teacher asks them to wait until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the introductory digital story, without asking any further questions.
One of the example practices could be to point correctly to a picture of the current concept in it when they 
are given instructions by the teacher in simple English.  Pupils give responses by pointing out relevant so-
called pictures without speaking any Turkish but only in very simple English or with mimics and gestures.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about the current theme (in their minds) 

===== PDF_PAGE_359 =====
359
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
in their own language and the present information about the concept through meaningful contextualised 
activities with visuals within the theme.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME FOR WELL-BEING
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive and 
ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as playing a 
short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, saying a tongue 
twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of 
English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG.4.4.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current 
theme during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “family life” in their minds, so a further 
concept check would help them prepare for the current theme (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, CS2.11, CS2.16.2). 
For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and show a card model of a school and sets of 
pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the pupils to point to the pictures in or on the 
model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context of the theme, the introductory digital story, 
that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.8). For each theme, a digitally constructed 
story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through the theme 
to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of 
the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. (A 
3-D model of family life can also be created using Web 2.0 programmes.) They can guess the sub-concepts 
of family life, so they can easily understand that the current theme will be “family life” (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, 
SELS1.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17).
ENG.4.4.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “family life with
family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands (now and in the past); 
places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons” as a whole, without stopping the video at any point, 
so that the pupils can understand the theme/topic holistically (D3.2, SELS1.1, V2.1, V2.2, V2.3, V2.4, V3.3, 
V5.1, V8.3, V16.1, V16.2, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.14, CS2.16.2).

===== PDF_PAGE_360 =====
360
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.4.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to 
the content about family life and its relevant components, some pictures are brought into the classroom by 
the teacher. The teacher brings a necessary number of large boxes for the pictures (some symbols are stuck 
on the boxes for family life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ 
errands (now and in the past); places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons) and puts the boxes on 
the table. She/He puts the corresponding picture into the related box when the corresponding vocabulary is 
mentioned in the introductory digital story without stopping the video while the pupils watch the story (V2.1, 
V2.2, V2.3, V2.4, V3.3, V5.1, V8.3, V16.1, V16.2, LS1). When they have watched the whole story, the teacher 
shows the items in the boxes on the table and asks some simple display questions about it. In this way, the 
teacher could carry out a monologue and also engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they 
have recognised the theme as a whole through its components, which can be used to check their learning 
as described in item (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (D1.2, 
D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, V6.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8)). After watching the introductory digital story, the teacher takes 
all the pictures out of the boxes and puts them back on the table again and says the word “family life” several 
times aloud, and the pupils repeat after her/him. In this way, the main vocabulary of the theme “family life” 
is introduced to the pupils in English. To remember the sequence of the scenes with the parts, places, and 
people in the “family life” in the introductory digital story, the teacher shows the mixed images/pictures of 
the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the pupils to look at the images/ pictures of these scenes for a while 
(CS2.3). She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs with the mixed paper pictures she has already 
given to the pupils (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2) . When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for 
scenes of the story, the teacher asks the pupils to take turns or volunteer to order the scenes on the screen 
of the Smart Board (or the pictures on the blackboard (SELS1.2, V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10). This 
will help the teacher organise the story as a whole so that the pupils can identify the main theme and the 
components of the theme through their memories (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, CS2.12).
ENG.4.4.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3).
ENG.4.4.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “family life with family members’ jobs; 
family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands (now and in the past); places for services in 
the neighbourhood; comparisons”, the teacher puts on the table the pictures and boxes that she/he has 
previously used. She/He holds up each picture and asks the pupils to repeat each word aloud a few times 
as a whole class after listening to the recordings she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 
programmes. She/He puts the picture in the correct box about the group corresponding to the word while 
repeating the words with the whole class (V2.1, V2.2, V2.3, V2.4, V3.4, V5.1, V8.3, V16.1, V16.2, LS1, LS4, 
CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer variations with some techniques, such as showing the picture of the target 
words about family life to the pupils to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear 
the word from the recording, and then both. To help the pupils pronounce the words accurately, the teacher 
asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, 
then in large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers, using the shadow technique, in 

===== PDF_PAGE_361 =====
361
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
which pupils immediately repeat whatever the teacher is saying or the story, without pausing (D1.3, SELS1.2, 
SELS2.1, V3.4, V7.1, LS2, CS2.14).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended with 
different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for the family life and its 
components, the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts them out, the pupils repeat 
after her/him (SELS2.1, CS2.6). Then the teacher and the pupils say the target words and act them out 
together at the same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts them out (V3.4, V4.2, V15.1, 
LS4). These “family life”-related actions can be done through the actions which can be done in the school, 
but they are only used for acting without teaching them as verbs in English. For instance, they can pretend 
to do things according to the topic. As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, 
sadly, angrily etc. using different tones of voice through TPR techniques (SELS2.3, V11.1, V12.2, LS5, CS2.9). 
Then some groups of pupils say the words, some groups of pupils act them out. While doing the repetitions, 
they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom. Some action 
sequences are also created through which the pupils can practise the social language expressions of the 
theme in a fun way by repeating, pointing, and miming in several games. Several fun pronunciation games 
could be played where pupils whisper a target word into the ears of their peers forming a chain and the 
last person says it aloud and the class checks if the word is pronounced correctly or not (D2.5, SELS2.1, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, V6.2, LS6, CS2.12).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.4.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS : The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract 
from the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading 
sections of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are 
limited reading texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and 
speed reading are used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading 
for detail are used in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases are used 
in a simplified and age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend 
and help talk/write about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language 
and communicative competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3) . For the initial 
stage of reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. 
sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual 
introductory story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming 
to recall the conceptual meanings they already have about the theme on “family life with family members’ 
jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands (now and in the past); places for services 
in the neighbourhood; comparisons” (V2.1, V2.2, V2.3, V2.4, V3.3, V5.1, V8.3, V16.1, V16.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 
At this stage, the teacher could ask the pupils to read the title/heading of the content and ask the pupils 
which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title by showing them a list 
of words and corresponding pictures to choose the ones they know (SELS1.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.16.2). She/He 
reminds them not to ask for the meanings of new words or the words they do not know. She/He reminds 
them that this is only a recalling activity to check the words they know and that there will be time to work on 
the new words of the new theme later (D3.2, D3.6, V12.1, CS2.10, CS2.12).

===== PDF_PAGE_362 =====
362
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.4.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 3-D 
house model of “family life” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each item, the written form of the word is 
provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words first silently. The teacher then points 
to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole class. Then she/he invites volunteers 
to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of the class read them aloud as a chorus 
(D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG.4.4.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version 
of the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/Smart Board. She/ He 
asks the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14) . From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used 
to understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “family life with family members’ jobs; 
family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands (now and in the past); places for services 
in the neighbourhood; comparisons” (SELS3.1, SELS3.2).  During this process pupils work collaboratively 
to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings (SELS2.2, V2.1, V2.2, V2.3, V2.4, V4.2, V5.1, V8.3, V16.1, 
V16.2, CS2.6). This is evaluated as described in items (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.4.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: 
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1). The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3).
ENG.4.4.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_363 =====
363
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.4.V2.
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to the 
theme “family life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands 
(now and in the past); places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons”, the teacher asks the pupils to 
watch the introductory digital story again. A scanning activity to find out the main details of the introductory 
digital story (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help pupils to know more about the 
content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The activity could 
be designed by listing some pictures for the vocabulary about the main components of the theme that take 
place in the story/text (V2.1, V2.2, V2.3, V2.4, V3.3, V3.4, V5.1, V8.3, V16.1, V16.2). Pupils circle or tick the 
ones that they have heard, seen and scanned (quickly read) in the story/text. In this way, they will be able 
to understand the story/text in general by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target 
vocabulary items (D3.2, D3.6,CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7).  Then, from the beginning, whenever an item related 
to “family life” is mentioned, the teacher stops the video and asks a question in the form of two options by 
showing their pictures (CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what they are based on the pictures, the scene, and 
the sound, pupils hear the English equivalents of the words for the family life with family members’ jobs; 
family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands (now and in the past); places for services in 
the neighbourhood; comparisons, and they answer as a whole class. In this way, they are introduced to the 
meaning of the target words (D1.1, CS2.10). This is done in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be 
checked as described in items (SELS2.1) (3) and (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of 
the English Curriculum (V4.2, V14.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.4.4.V3.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “family life”, the teacher prepares an activity using the Web 2.0 program with images/
pictures of components of “family life”. She/He prepares three boxes on one side of the screen and mixed 
images/ pictures for target vocabulary related to the “family life” on the other side. She/He asks the pupils 
to look at the mixed pile of images/pictures on the Smart Board screen and scan them for a while to 
remember them (CS2.4). She/He asks the pupils to drag the objects about the components of the theme 
into the correct box on the screen. The boxes have the words for each component represented on them with 
symbolic pictures. The pupils are given the cut-out pictures and a large sheet of paper with the pictures of 
empty boxes. The teacher asks them to work in pairs and put the cut-out pictures in the right box and ask 
each other several display questions (CS2.5). When the pupils have finished working with the cut-outs and 
asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the 
Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures as the components of the theme “family life” to 
the correct empty boxes on the screen (SELS1.2, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the 
concept of the theme “family life” are consolidated through categorisation. The same activity can be done 
with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. To practise the meanings of 
the target words about the school, the teacher places several pictures for them in the different parts of the 
classroom. She/He then puts some flashcards with the target vocabulary for “family life” on the blackboard/
whiteboard. She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows it to the pupils. Pupils, working in pairs, look at 
the flashcard, decide which picture on the classroom walls is relevant, they go to the picture together, pin 
the flashcard to the noticeboard and say the word together first in pairs, and then as a whole class (SELS2.1, 
SELS2.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.5). To consolidate the meanings of the new vocabulary items for 
the concept of “family life”, the teacher could organise several activities in pairs and groups with pictures 
and flashcards such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, etc. (SELS2.2). These activities are 
closed and controlled so that pupils can practise the current (new) vocabulary about the current context 
in the beginning but later they work with simple and easy open-ended and communicative activities (D2.5, 
SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5). This is evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The teacher asks the pupils to copy the words 

===== PDF_PAGE_364 =====
364
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with their peers and 
check each other’s spelling using the words written on the model school on the blackboard/Smart Board 
(SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4).  This is evaluated as described in items (3) and (4) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.4.G1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS:  To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target language 
chunks about the theme “family life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family 
members’ errands (now and in the past); places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons” (D3.2, 
CS2.2). While the pupils watch the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the 
target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and 
asking the pupils to do the same (CS2.14). She/He could hold up large pictures and ask the pupils questions 
about the pictures with the target chunks expecting the pupils to ask and answer by using the target chunks. 
To check the pupils’ identification of the target language chunks, the teacher shows some picture strips that 
she/he has prepared for this activity, using some Web 2.0 programmes, after the pupils have watched the 
introductory digital story and imitated the actions and said the target language chunks. She/He asks the 
pupils to listen to her/him saying a target language chunk and then to look at the screen and say “Stop!” when 
they see a scene in the picture strips with the target chunk that the teacher has just said (SELS3.1, CS2.7). 
The teacher stops if the pupils are correct, but not if they are not (V2.1, V2.2, V2.3, V2.4, V3.3, V4.1, V5.1, 
V8.3, V7.1, V16.1, V16.2, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.4.4.G2.
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme “family life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ 
errands (now and in the past); places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons”, and writes the 
appropriate language chunks to be used with each of the groups. She/He also provides the vocabulary 
items on the Smart Board screen. The teacher wants the pupils to think for a while and talk with their peers 
about which target words can be used in which language chunk group (SELS2.2, V2.1, V2.2, V2.3, V2.4, 
V3.1, V5.1, V8.3, V10.3, V16.1, V16.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.4).  Then the pupils go to the board and move the words 
under the correct heading and say the complete sentence with the target words and the chunks. They are 
then asked to say a sentence with the target chunk aloud as a class. Each sentence is repeated after each 
pair. Their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum. The same game can be played with pictures on the blackboard if 
there are technological/technical problems (D2.5). To organise the pupils’ further practice to consolidate the 
target language chunks, the teacher could create some action sequences in context by repeating, saying, 
and acting out with different activity bundles where their learning can be checked as described in items (5), 
(8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (CS2.13). There 
is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Pupils can automatically, spontaneously, 
and naturally select and use the target language chunks in the current context (SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, 
LS5, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  For consolidation of the target language chunks, the teacher can facilitate 
more fun activities and games so that the pupils can practise and consolidate them (V4.4, V7.2).
ENG.4.4.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by using 
language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme which 
is about “family life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands 

===== PDF_PAGE_365 =====
365
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
(now and in the past); places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons” as in other themes. Writing 
activities are arranged according to age and level so they are quite limited and are gradually expanded (V2.1, 
V2.2, V2.3, V2.4, V3.2, V3.4, V5.1, V8.3, V16.1, V16.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.4.4.W2.
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions with 
a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are asked 
to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they get used 
to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written language 
(D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). To further practise guided and copied writing, the teacher gives 
all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2) (of two, three, four etc.) 
and to write the names of the vocabulary items “family life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-
lasting habits; family members’ errands (now and in the past); places for services in the neighbourhood; 
comparisons” next to their drawings on the model related to family life. The teacher asks them to look at 
the Smart Board screen with the model related to family life that she/he has made earlier so that the pupils 
can easily copy the target words for the items as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum (V2.1, V2.2, V2.3, V2.4, V4.4, V5.1, V7.3, V8.3, V16.1, V16.2, LS4).
ENG.4.4.W3.
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form of a 
new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/writing 
(copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “family life” in fun, enjoyable, varied, 
and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, practical, and appropriate to the pupils’ age 
and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.20).
ENG.4.4.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.4.4.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme “family life with family members’ jobs; family 
members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands (now and in the past); places for services in the 
neighbourhood; comparisons” from simple to more expanded versions in their writing (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, 
V2.1, V2.2, V2.3, V2.4, V4.2, V5.1, V8.3, V15.1, V16.1, V16.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies 
can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce simple 
digital materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, 
V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These activities can be evaluated as described in items (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.

===== PDF_PAGE_366 =====
366
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.4.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing expression process and asks them to express their  
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15).  Pupils express what they think and feel about 
them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, 
SELS2.2). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and  
collaborative design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.4.4.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme about “family 
life with family members’ jobs; family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands (now and in the 
past); places for services in the neighbourhood; comparisons” (V2.1, V2.2, V2.3, V2.4, V3.2, V4.2, V5.1, V8.3, 
V16.1, V16.2, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.4.4.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6). They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.
ENG.4.4.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo/picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).
ENG.4.4.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. To interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “family life with family members’ jobs; 
family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands (now and in the past); places for services in 
the neighbourhood; comparisons” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V2.1, V2.2, V2.3, V2.4, V4.2, V5.1, V8.3, V11.1, V16.1, 
V16.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access 
to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings for developing their oral skills (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V3.4, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).
ENG.4.4.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:
Pupils communicate with each other by seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target 
words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities 
(SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation 
and revision. These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the 

===== PDF_PAGE_367 =====
367
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
pupils’ age, interests, and language level. Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively 
and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, 
LS1). Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as 
dialogues, show and tell activities, acting out activities to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar 
in use, and the social language for the theme “family life” and its components such as “family members’ jobs; 
family members’ long-lasting habits; family members’ errands (now and in the past); places for services in 
the neighbourhood; comparisons” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V2.1, V2.2, V2.3, V2.4, V4.2, V5.1, V7.2, V8.3, V16.1, 
V16.2, LS4, CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access 
to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items 
(7), (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
Then they can expand their language use and practise by communicating with others.
ENG.4.4.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.15).  The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To identify family members’ jobs and talk about them in English by using the target vocabulary 
and target chunks.
Activity 1: Jobs Match and Say
The teacher decorates the classroom walls with a large family tree showing names and jobs (e.g., “Uncle 
John - doctor”, “Aunt Janet - teacher”). Job titles (e.g., doctor, teacher, farmer) are written on small pieces of 
paper and placed in a box. Each pupil draws a job from the box, finds the matching family member on the wall, 
and forms a sentence using the job. Pupils are not given action verbs and must think of them independently. 
For example:
• If a pupil draws “doctor”, they say: “Uncle John is a doctor. He helps people”.
• If a pupil draws “teacher”, they say: “Aunt Janet is a teacher. She teaches students”.
The teacher provides positive feedback to motivate them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings 
about the activity by using emoticons.

===== PDF_PAGE_368 =====
368
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Supporting
Objective: To identify family members’ jobs and describe them in English by using the target vocabulary and 
target chunks.
Activity 1: Jobs Match and Say
The teacher writes job titles (e.g., doctor, teacher, farmer) on small pieces of paper and places them in a box, 
then writes action verbs (e.g., help people, teach) on the board. Each pupil picks a job from the box, checks 
the corresponding action on the board, and forms a sentence about a family member. For example, if a pupil 
picks “doctor” and sees “help people” on the board, they might say: “My uncle is a doctor. He helps people”. 
This activity encourages pupils to use both job vocabulary and action verbs in meaningful sentences. The 
teacher provides positive feedback to motivate them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the 
activity by using emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_369 =====
369
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 5: HOMES & HOUSES & THE NEIGHBOURHOOD
Sub-themes: Life on the seaside; sea/marine animals 
and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: 
dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by 
the water
This theme is centred on the concept of “homes, houses, and the 
neighbourhood” and covers the sub-themes of “life on the seaside; sea/marine 
animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/
marine animals; types of houses by the water”. These components (sub-
themes) are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised 
use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and 
social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed 
to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within 
and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V9. 
Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, V14. Respect, 
V15. Love and Affection, V18. Cleanliness, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS8. Sustainability Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_370 =====
370
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Sciences, Visual Arts, Music, Physical Education and 
Games
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. 
Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, 
CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis 
Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_371 =====
371
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 4 is structured based on holistic approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.4.5.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “homes, houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine 
animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; 
types of houses by the water”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures and context.
ENG.4.5.L2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “homes, houses and the 
neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities of 
sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water” together 
with key details and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.4.5.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “homes, houses and 
the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities 
of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water” through 
details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age- and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school. 
ENG.4.5.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “homes, 
houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: 
activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the 
water” in a very simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_372 =====
372
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.
ENG.4.5.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“homes, houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their 
habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses 
by the water” accurately, authentically, and naturally through spontaneous selection and using 
it in an appropriate and effective way when communicating with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.4.5.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“homes, houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their 
habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses 
by the water”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.4.5.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “homes, houses and the 
neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities of 
sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water” through 
skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.4.5.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “homes, houses 
and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: 
activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the 
water” by reading it carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 

===== PDF_PAGE_373 =====
373
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it 
in a simple and meaningful way.
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.
ENG.4.5.R4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the reading-
comprehension process about the current content, “homes, houses and the neighbourhood 
with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine 
animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water” for reflection in 
relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.4.5.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “homes, houses 
and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: 
activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the 
water” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and 
effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.4.5.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the current 
content about “homes, houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine 
animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; 
types of houses by the water” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use 
it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_374 =====
374
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically 
and by pointing.
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.4.5.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “homes, 
houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: 
activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the 
water” in an age- and level-appropriate way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.4.5.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on “homes, 
houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their 
habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses 
by the water” based on the model/example provided to practise for further writing activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.4.5.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“homes, houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their 
habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses 
by the water” based on the model/example provided.
a) Pupils organise a very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.4.5.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the 
current content “homes, houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine 
animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; 
types of houses by the water”.

===== PDF_PAGE_375 =====
375
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 
ENG.4.5.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks about 
the “homes, houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and 
their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of 
houses by the water” to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully and individually reorganising it.
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.
ENG.4.5.W6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “homes, houses and the neighbourhood with 
life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: 
dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water” very simply for reflection in 
relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.4.5.S1.  Pupils can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “homes, 
houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: 
activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the 
water” with the help of supplementary audio-visual materials.
a) Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and imitation after 
completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used during the 
initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current content.
ENG.4.5.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme 
on “homes, houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and 
their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of 
houses by the water”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.4.5.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “homes, houses and the neighbourhood with 
life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: 
dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water” by speaking accurately, 
efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.

===== PDF_PAGE_376 =====
376
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.5.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “homes, houses and the neighbourhood with 
life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: 
dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water” through reconstruction by 
speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.
ENG.4.5.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “homes, houses and 
the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities 
of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water” by 
reconstructing it to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.
b) Pupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.
ENG.4.5.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “homes, houses and the neighbourhood with 
life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: 
dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water” very simply for reflection in 
relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_377 =====
377
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
HOMES & HOUSES & THE NEIGHBOURHOOD:
Sub-themes: Life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: 
dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Sea/marine animals: A whale, a shark, a fish, a dolphin, a sea turtle, a jellyfish, an octopus, a crab, a starfish, 
a jellyfish, a seal.
Habitats for marine animals: An ocean, a river, a lake, a sea, a lagoon.
Activities in the marine habitats: To swim, to splash, to dive, to jump, to hide, to play, to crawl.
Dangers for marine animals: Plastic, waste, a fishing net, pollution, hunting, climate change.
Types of houses by the water:  A beach house, a lake house, a houseboat.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations:  “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Language Chunks in Use: 
Language Chunks: Will for the Simple Future: (What do you think)  the weather will be like tomorrow? I think 
it will be sunny).
Function: Talking about things that will happen in the future, especially for decisions and predictions.
Language Chunks: Superlative forms of Adjectives: (Who is the best cook in your family? My sister is the 
best cook in our family).(What was the worst film you watched last year? It was The Haunted House. It was 
the worst).
Functions: Describing one person, animal, place, or thing as having the highest or lowest degree of a quality, 
when the adjective does not follow the regular -est pattern.
Should: 
Language Chunks: (What should we do to protect sea-marine animals? We should not throw plastic in the 
ocean. We should keep the seas clean).
Function: Giving advice or suggestions.
(Mustn’t): 
Language Chunks: (You mustn’t throw rubbish into the sea).
Function: Describing prohibition.
Quantifiers: Many, much, a lot of, no.
Function: Indicating the quantity or amount of countable and uncountable nouns.
Past versus present:
Language Chunks: (There were a lot of seals on the beach last Friday. There are no seals on the beach 
today). (There was not much clean water in the sea last year. There is some clean water in the sea this year). 
(There were many fish in the sea last year. There are no fish in the sea this year).
Functions: Comparing past and present conditions or situations.
Revisional Target Language Chunks in Use:
Where do you live? We live in a beach house.
What do you do in your beach house? I watch the sea and the sea animals.

===== PDF_PAGE_378 =====
378
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Where do whales live? They live in the ocean.
What do whales eat? Whales eat small fish.
What are the dangers for whales? The dangers for whales are plastic and pollution.
Target Social Language in Use:
What a shame!
That’s interesting.
Guess what?
Don’t worry!
That’s a good point.
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
q, r, s, t, v
Consonants: q: /kjuː/, r: /ɑː/(Br), /r/ (AmE.);  s: (/s/, /ɛs/, /z/);  t: (/tiː/, /t/); v: (/viː/, /v/)
*No pronunciation symbols will be included in any material written for the pupils, (only) the sounds will be 
practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations 
The concept of “homes, houses and the neighbourhood” is present in almost all languages because it is one 
of the most basic parts of almost all human beings’ and children’s lives in different parts of the world. People 
who start to learn a new language bring with them their previous/pre-existing knowledge and transfer it 
to their new language learning. So, a primary school pupil in year 4 will know what “homes, houses and 
the neighbourhood” mean as a concept but will not know its equivalents in another language if it has not 
been covered in their existing foreign language curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own 
language will help them recognise, understand, and learn it more easily in a foreign language, English in this 
case.
Key Concepts:
Sea, seaside, life, life on the seaside, activities, dangers, animals, habitats, sea/marine, sea/marine animals, 
activities of sea/marine animals, dangers for sea/marine animals, habitats of sea/marine animals, houses, 
types of houses, houses by the water, types of houses by the water.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT:  Pupils will create a brochure titled “Life by the Water and Sea/Marine 
Protection”. They will draw or include pictures of marine animals, describe their habitats in one sentence 
(e.g., “Dolphins live in the sea”), and list dangers like plastic and pollution with advice (e.g., “We must keep 
the sea clean”). They will also draw or glue pictures of houses by the water and write about what people can 
see or do there (e.g., “If you live in a houseboat, you can watch fish swimming”). Finally, they will include three 
sentences about protecting marine life. Pupils will present their brochures to the class. The class will rate 
the presentations through the rating scales or checklists given by the teacher.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of the “life on the seaside and sea/marine animals” in their own 
language. As the pupils are 9-year-old primary school children, they can know what “life on the seaside and 
sea/marine animals and their habitats mean in their own language and to be able to express them in their own 
language.  However, they would not know them in a foreign language, in this case English, if they were not 
covered in their existing foreign language curriculum. This knowledge in their own language would prepare 
them to identify the same concepts in their foreign language, English, without speaking any Turkish. It is 
assumed that they have learnt how to ask what things are and how to introduce them using language chunks 
such as “There’s/is some rubbish here. It’s/is dangerous for animals. Keep the streets clean.  All animals must 

===== PDF_PAGE_379 =====
379
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
stay healthy. Don’t throw rubbish! Animals can die. What can we do for animals? We cannot throw rubbish 
anywhere. You mustn’t throw rubbish into the sea. There are some cats in the street today. There aren’t/are 
not dogs in the street today” in English from the previous themes or years. These chunks can be used as a 
basis for learning the new language chunks in the current theme making the new chunks easier to learn. This 
can be an activity such as a short game, a dialogue work, an acting-out game, a physical activity, listening to 
a song/chant/rhyme and so on which will not require a high level of English knowledge and also there will not 
be a need to speak Turkish. 
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that pupils’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about “homes, houses and the neighbourhood” as a concept in English. Some previous themes from 
previous years would be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept 
of “life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers 
for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise 
“homes, houses and the neighbourhood, life” they learnt before. Some language chunks are also revised 
by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated 
by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to understand and use previously learnt 
vocabulary and language chunks to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to 
emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and 
chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics and/or checklists.)
Establishing Links
Pupils are asked to recall the current (theme) concept of “life in the city and the world” and its components 
such as “healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays”, by remembering 
their previous/pre-existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own 
language to make links with the current activities in the theme in English without translating anything until 
they start learning the target words in the current concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept 
various visual materials such as a short digital cartoon, a picture, a poster can be prepared and shown (it 
can be a paper picture format if there are technological problems) before the main teaching/learning flow of 
the lesson begins. The pupils are facilitated through the materials they have learnt the concept of it in the 
previous years with various activities. Then they are asked in simple English what was it about. They get help 
from the teacher to be able remember and say. For example the teacher could show the pictures with the 
words next to them so that pupils can remember some vocabulary and language chunks from the previous 
years. The teacher asks them to wait until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the introductory digital story, without asking any further questions.
One of the example practices could be to point correctly to a picture of the current concept in it when they 
are given instructions by the teacher in simple English.  Pupils give responses by pointing out relevant so-
called pictures without speaking any Turkish but only in very simple English or with mimics and gestures.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about the current theme (in their minds) 
in their own language and the present information about the concept through meaningful contextualised 
activities with visuals within the theme.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME FOR WELL-BEING
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive and 
ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as playing a 
short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, saying a tongue 
twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of 
English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).

===== PDF_PAGE_380 =====
380
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG.4.5.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current 
theme during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “homes and houses and the 
neighbourhood” in their minds, so a further concept check would help them prepare for the current theme 
(D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, CS2.11, CS2.16.2) . For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and 
show a card model of a school and sets of pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the 
pupils to point to the pictures in or on the model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context 
of the theme, the introductory digital story, that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, 
CS2.8). For each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited 
several times while going through the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social 
language expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main 
context to the whole theme at the same time. (A 3-D model of homes and houses and the neighbourhood can 
also be created using Web 2.0 programmes.) They can guess the sub-concepts of homes and houses and 
the neighbourhood, so they can easily understand that the current theme will be “homes and houses and the 
neighbourhood” (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17).
ENG.4.5.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “homes and 
houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities 
of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water” as a whole, without 
stopping the video at any point, so that the pupils can understand the theme/topic holistically (D3.2, SELS1.1, 
V3.3, V5.2, V9.2, V9.3, V14.1, V18.2, V18.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.14, CS2.16.2).
ENG.4.5.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to 
the content about homes and houses and the neighbourhood and its relevant components, some pictures 
are brought into the classroom by the teacher. The teacher brings a necessary number of large boxes for the 
pictures (some symbols are stuck on the boxes for homes and houses and the neighbourhood with life on the 
seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine 
animals; types of houses by the water) and puts the boxes on the table. She/He puts the corresponding 
picture into the related box when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the introductory digital 
story without stopping the video while the pupils watch the story (V3.3, V5.2, V9.2, V9.3, V14.1, V18.2, V18.3, 
LS1). When they have watched the whole story, the teacher shows the items in the boxes on the table and 
asks some simple display questions about it. In this way, the teacher could carry out a monologue and also 
engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the theme as a whole through its 

===== PDF_PAGE_381 =====
381
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
components, which can be used to check their learning as described in item (8) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, V6.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8)).  After 
watching the introductory digital story, the teacher takes all the pictures out of the boxes and puts them 
back on the table again and says the word “homes and houses and the neighbourhood” several times aloud, 
and the pupils repeat after her/him. In this way, the main vocabulary of the theme “homes and houses and 
the neighbourhood” is introduced to the pupils in English. To remember the sequence of the scenes with 
the parts, places, and people in the “homes and houses and the neighbourhood” in the introductory digital 
story, the teacher shows the mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the pupils to 
look at the images/ pictures of these scenes for a while (CS2.3). She/He then asks them to order the scenes 
in pairs with the mixed paper pictures she has already given to the pupils (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2) . 
When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for scenes of the story, the teacher asks the pupils to take 
turns or volunteer to order the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board (or the pictures on the blackboard 
(SELS1.2, V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10).  This will help the teacher organise the story as a whole 
so that the pupils can identify the main theme and the components of the theme through their memories 
(D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, CS2.12).
ENG.4.5.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3).
ENG.4.5.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “homes and houses and the 
neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine 
animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water”, the teacher puts on the table the 
pictures and boxes that she/he has previously used. She/He holds up each picture and asks the pupils to 
repeat each word aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to the recordings she/he has prepared 
beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes. She/He puts the picture in the correct box about the group 
corresponding to the word while repeating the words with the whole class (V3.4, V5.2, V9.2, V9.3, V14.1, 
V18.2, V18.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer variations with some techniques, such as showing 
the picture of the target words about homes and houses and the neighbourhood to the pupils to say the 
word or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the recording, and then both. 
To help the pupils pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud 
a few times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and 
then again as volunteers, using the shadow technique, in which pupils immediately repeat whatever the 
teacher is saying or the story, without pausing (D1.3, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V3.4, V7.1, LS2, CS2.14).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended with 
different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for the homes and houses and 
the neighbourhood and its components, the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts 
them out, the pupils repeat after her/him (SELS2.1, CS2.6). Then the teacher and the pupils say the target 
words and act them out together at the same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts them 
out (V3.4, V4.2, V15.1, LS4). These “homes and houses and the neighbourhood”-related actions can be done 
through the actions which can be done in the school, but they are only used for acting without teaching them 
as verbs in English. For instance, they can pretend to do things according to the topic. As a variation, they 
can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, sadly, angrily etc. using different tones of voice through 

===== PDF_PAGE_382 =====
382
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
TPR techniques (SELS2.3, V11.1, V12.2, LS5, CS2.9). Then some groups of pupils say the words, some groups 
of pupils act them out. While doing the repetitions, they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has 
placed in different places in the classroom. Some action sequences are also created through which the 
pupils can practise the social language expressions of the theme in a fun way by repeating, pointing, and 
miming in several games. Several fun pronunciation games could be played where pupils whisper a target 
word into the ears of their peers forming a chain and the last person says it aloud and the class checks 
if the word is pronounced correctly or not (D2.5, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, V6.2, LS6, CS2.12).  Their 
learning is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of 
the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.5.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS : The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract 
from the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading 
sections of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are 
limited reading texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and 
speed reading are used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading 
for detail are used in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases are used 
in a simplified and age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend and 
help talk/write about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language and 
communicative competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3). For the initial stage of 
reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, 
scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory 
story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the 
conceptual meanings they already have about the theme on “homes and houses and the neighbourhood 
with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers 
for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water” (V3.3, V5.2, V9.2, V9.3, V14.1, V18.2, V18.3, LS2, LS4, 
CS2.8). At this stage, the teacher could ask the pupils to read the title/heading of the content and ask the 
pupils which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title by showing them 
a list of words and corresponding pictures to choose the ones they know (SELS1.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.16.2). She/
He reminds them not to ask for the meanings of new words or the words they do not know. She/He reminds 
them that this is only a recalling activity to check the words they know and that there will be time to work on 
the new words of the new theme later (D3.2, D3.6, V12.1, CS2.10, CS2.12).
ENG.4.5.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 
3-D house model of “homes and houses and the neighbourhood” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each 
item, the written form of the word is provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words 
first silently. The teacher then points to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole 
class. Then she/he invites volunteers to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of 
the class read them aloud as a chorus (D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG.4.5.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version 
of the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/Smart Board. She/ He 
asks the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 

===== PDF_PAGE_383 =====
383
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones (SELS2.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14) . From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used 
to understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “homes and houses and the neighbourhood 
with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers 
for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water” (SELS3.1, SELS3.2). During this process pupils work 
collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings (SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.2, V9.2, V9.3, V14.1, 
V18.2, V18.3, CS2.6). This is evaluated as described in items (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.5.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: 
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1). The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3).
ENG.4.5.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.
ENG.4.5.V2.
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to the 
theme “homes and houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their 
habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water”, 
the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story again. A scanning activity to find out the 
main details of the introductory digital story (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help 
pupils to know more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text 
could be about. The activity could be designed by listing some pictures for the vocabulary about the main 
components of the theme that take place in the story/text (V3.3, V3.4, V5.2, V9.2, V9.3, V14.1, V18.2, V18.3). 
Pupils circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned (quickly read) in the story/text. In this 
way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general by using the main elements and also be ready to 
work on the target vocabulary items (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then, from the beginning, whenever 
an item related to “homes and houses and the neighbourhood” is mentioned, the teacher stops the video and 
asks a question in the form of two options by showing their pictures (CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what they 
are based on the pictures, the scene, and the sound, pupils hear the English equivalents of the words for the 
homes and houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: 
activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water, and they 
answer as a whole class. In this way, they are introduced to the meaning of the target words (D1.1, CS2.10). 
This is done in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (SELS2.1) 
(3) and (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.2, V5.2, V9.2, 
V9.3, V14.1, V18.2, V18.3, LS1, LS2, LS4).

===== PDF_PAGE_384 =====
384
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.5.V3.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “homes and houses and the neighbourhood”, the teacher prepares an activity using the 
Web 2.0 program with images/pictures of components of “homes and houses and the neighbourhood”. She/
He prepares three boxes on one side of the screen and mixed images/ pictures for target vocabulary related 
to the “homes and houses and the neighbourhood” on the other side. She/He asks the pupils to look at the 
mixed pile of images/pictures on the Smart Board screen and scan them for a while to remember them 
(CS2.4). She/He asks the pupils to drag the objects about the components of the theme into the correct box 
on the screen. The boxes have the words for each component represented on them with symbolic pictures. 
The pupils are given the cut-out pictures and a large sheet of paper with the pictures of empty boxes. 
The teacher asks them to work in pairs and put the cut-out pictures in the right box and ask each other 
several display questions (CS2.5). When the pupils have finished working with the cut-outs and asking and 
answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart Board 
and drag the corresponding images/pictures as the components of the theme “homes and houses and the 
neighbourhood” to the correct empty boxes on the screen (SELS1.2, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures 
that are relevant to the concept of the theme “homes and houses and the neighbourhood” are consolidated 
through categorisation. The same activity can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there 
is a problem with technology. To practise the meanings of the target words about the school, the teacher 
places several pictures for them in the different parts of the classroom. She/He then puts some flashcards 
with the target vocabulary for “homes and houses and the neighbourhood” on the blackboard/whiteboard. 
She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows it to the pupils. Pupils, working in pairs, look at the flashcard, 
decide which picture on the classroom walls is relevant, they go to the picture together, pin the flashcard 
to the noticeboard and say the word together first in pairs, and then as a whole class (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, 
V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.5). To consolidate the meanings of the new vocabulary items for the concept 
of “homes and houses and the neighbourhood”, the teacher could organise several activities in pairs and 
groups with pictures and flashcards such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, etc. (SELS2.2). 
These activities are closed and controlled so that pupils can practise the current (new) vocabulary about the 
current context in the beginning but later they work with simple and easy open-ended and communicative 
activities (D2.5, SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5). This is evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The teacher asks the pupils to 
copy the words in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling using the words written on the model school on the blackboard/
Smart Board (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). This is evaluated as described in items (3) and 
(4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.5.G1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS: To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language chunks 
of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target language chunks 
about the theme “homes and houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals 
and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the 
water” (D3.2, CS2.2). While the pupils watch the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes 
where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by showing the scene, saying the 
chunk, and asking the pupils to do the same (CS2.14). She/He could hold up large pictures and ask the pupils 
questions about the pictures with the target chunks expecting the pupils to ask and answer by using the 
target chunks. To check the pupils’ identification of the target language chunks, the teacher shows some 
picture strips that she/he has prepared for this activity, using some Web 2.0 programmes, after the pupils 
have watched the introductory digital story and imitated the actions and said the target language chunks. 
She/He asks the pupils to listen to her/him saying a target language chunk and then to look at the screen and 
say “Stop!” when they see a scene in the picture strips with the target chunk that the teacher has just said 
(SELS3.1, CS2.7). The teacher stops if the pupils are correct, but not if they are not (V3.3, V4.1, V5.2, V9.2, 
V9.3, V14.1, V18.2, V18.3, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).

===== PDF_PAGE_385 =====
385
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.5.G2.
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme “homes and houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and 
their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the 
water”, and writes the appropriate language chunks to be used with each of the groups. She/He also provides 
the vocabulary items on the Smart Board screen. The teacher wants the pupils to think for a while and talk 
with their peers about which target words can be used in which language chunk group (SELS2.2, V3.1, V10.3, 
LS1, LS4, CS2.4).  Then the pupils go to the board and move the words under the correct heading and say 
the complete sentence with the target words and the chunks. They are then asked to say a sentence with 
the target chunk aloud as a class. Each sentence is repeated after each pair. Their learning can be checked 
as described in items (5), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum. The same game can be played with pictures on the blackboard if there are technological/
technical problems (D2.5). To organise the pupils’ further practice to consolidate the target language 
chunks, the teacher could create some action sequences in context by repeating, saying, and acting out 
with different activity bundles where their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), (9), and 
(10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (CS2.13). There is no 
analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Pupils can automatically, spontaneously, and 
naturally select and use the target language chunks in the current context (SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, LS5, 
CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  For consolidation of the target language chunks, the teacher can facilitate more 
fun activities and games so that the pupils can practise and consolidate them (V4.4, V7.2).
ENG.4.5.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by using 
language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme which 
is about “homes and houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their 
habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water” as 
in other themes. Writing activities are arranged according to age and level so they are quite limited and are 
gradually expanded (V3.2, V3.4, V5.2, V9.2, V9.3, V14.1, V18.2, V18.3, LS1, LS4).
ENG.4.5.W2.
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions with 
a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are asked 
to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they get used 
to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written language 
(D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). To further practise guided and copied writing, the teacher gives 
all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2) (of two, three, four etc.) 
and to write the names of the vocabulary items “homes and houses and the neighbourhood with life on the 
seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine 
animals; types of houses by the water” next to their drawings on the model related to homes and houses 
and the neighbourhood. The teacher asks them to look at the Smart Board screen with the model related to 
homes and houses and the neighbourhood that she/he has made earlier so that the pupils can easily copy 
the target words for the items as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of 
the English Curriculum (V4.4, V5.2, V7.3, V9.2, V9.3, V14.1, V18.2, V18.3, LS4).

===== PDF_PAGE_386 =====
386
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.5.W3.
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form 
of a new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/
writing (copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “homes and houses and the 
neighbourhood” in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, 
practical, and appropriate to the pupils’ age and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, LS1, 
LS4, CS2.20).
ENG.4.5.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.4.5.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme “homes and houses and the neighbourhood with 
life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for 
sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water” from simple to more expanded versions in their writing 
(SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V4.2,V5.2, V9.2, V9.3, V14.1, V15.1, V18.2, V18.3, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based 
technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also 
produce simple digital materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways (D3.3, SELS3.2, 
SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These activities can be evaluated as described in items (8), (9), (10), 
(11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.5.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing expression process and asks them to express their  
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15).  Pupils express what they think and feel about 
them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, 
SELS2.2). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and  
collaborative design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.4.5.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language 
including the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme about 
“homes and houses and the neighbourhood with life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: 
activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water” (V3.2, V4.2, 
V5.2, V9.2, V9.3, V14.1, V18.2, V18.3, LS1, LS4, LS5).

===== PDF_PAGE_387 =====
387
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.5.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6). They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.
ENG.4.5.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo/picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).
ENG.4.5.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. To interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “homes and houses and the neighbourhood with life 
on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: dangers for sea/
marine animals; types of houses by the water” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V5.2, V9.2, V9.3, V11.1, V14.1, V18.2, 
V18.3, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20)). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access 
to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings for developing their oral skills (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V3.4, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).
ENG.4.5.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:
Pupils communicate with each other by seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target 
words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities 
(SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation 
and revision. These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the 
pupils’ age, interests, and language level. Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively 
and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, 
LS1). Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as 
dialogues, show and tell activities, acting out activities to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar in 
use, and the social language for the theme “homes and houses and the neighbourhood” and its components 
such as “life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats: activities of sea/marine animals: 
dangers for sea/marine animals; types of houses by the water” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V5.2, V7.2, V9.2, 
V9.3, V14.1, V18.2, V18.3, LS4, CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, 
giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school 
and at home through recordings (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated 
as described in items (7), (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use and practise by communicating with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_388 =====
388
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.5.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.15).  The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To identify and talk about life on the seaside; sea/marine animals and their habitats in English by 
using the target vocabulary and target chunks.
Activity 1: Marine Map
Pupils work in groups to complete a colourful map of the ocean and its habitats. Each group takes turns 
drawing a question from a box, such as “I have eight arms and can hide in small spaces. Who am I?” (Answer: 
OctopAmE.). Once they identify the correct sea animal, they select its picture from a pile of cards and stick 
it onto the corresponding habitat on the map, such as  “Dolphin Lagoon” or “Jellyfish Cove”. The group that 
completes the map the fastest and most accurately wins the game. They then repeat the words as a whole 
class. The teacher provides positive feedback to motivate them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings 
about the activity by using emoticons.
Supporting
Objective: To identify life on the seaside; sea/marine animals in English by using the target vocabulary.
Activity 1: Sea Animal Bingo
Pupils play “Sea Animal Bingo” by receiving bingo cards with pictures of sea animals such as jellyfish, crab, 
and dolphin. The teacher calls out the names of the animals, and pupils mark the matching pictures on their 
cards. The first pupil to complete their card shouts “Bingo!” and wins a small prize. They then repeat the 
words as a whole class. The teacher provides positive feedback to motivate them. Pupils reflect on their 
thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_389 =====
389
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 6: LIFE IN THE CITY & THE WORLD
Sub-themes: Healthy and unhealthy food; national and 
international dishes; countries; holidays
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in the city and the world” 
and covers the sub-themes of “healthy and unhealthy food; national and 
international dishes; countries; holidays”. These components (sub-themes) are 
integrated into the learning process through the contextualised use of target 
vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and social language 
expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, 
collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ 
developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this 
theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed 
to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school 
environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, 
CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking 
Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis 
Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_390 =====
390
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V10. 
Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, 
V15. Love and Affection, V17. Thriftiness, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Sciences, Visual Arts, Music, Physical Education and 
Games
INTERSKILLS CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. 
Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, 
CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. 
Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, 
CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking 
Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis 
Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_391 =====
391
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 4 is structured based on holistic approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.4.6.L1.  Pupils can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current content 
on “life in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international 
dishes; countries; holidays”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences related to the current theme and 
content, by recalling it in her/his own language in their minds.
b) Pupils recognise concrete and simple relationships between the previous knowledge and 
experience and the clues to the current content, by responding to simple questions with 
physical actions without speaking Turkish or without having a translation. 
c) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content, by using pre-existing knowledge 
and experience based on the realia, pictures and context.
ENG.4.6.L2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “life in the city and the world with 
healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays” together 
with key details and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/
visual elements scattered around the classroom in relation to the current theme.
b) Pupils comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole 
without having intervals.
c) Pupils recognise concrete/simple/basic details and components within the whole introductory 
content by watching and listening to it by noticing the basic components.
ENG.4.6.L3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “life in the city and 
the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; 
holidays” through details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Pupils check all initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals about the concept.
b) Pupils locate the components of the current content within the whole by listening and watching 
it. 
c) Pupils make simple and basic classifications of the current content when necessary by 
grouping components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
d) Pupils make very simple comparisons of the current content when necessary to be aware of 
the differences between components, words, and other aspects with the help of visuals.
e) Pupils recognise very concrete/simple/basic horizontal and vertical relationships within the 
current content by being aware that some vocabulary relates to one set of components while 
another set relates to other components.
f) Pupils internalise the current content personally in an age- and level-appropriate manner, 
recognising that it is about her/his present life at school. 
ENG.4.6.L4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings about the whole 
listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content on “life in 
the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; 
countries; holidays” in a very simple way.
a) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings in relation to the 
listening/watching-comprehension process about the current content by sharing them with 
others in a very simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_392 =====
392
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.6.P1.  Pupils can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about “life 
in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; 
countries; holidays” accurately, authentically, and naturally through spontaneous selection 
and using it in an appropriate and effective way when communicating with others.
a) Pupils listen to/watch the current content by paying attention to the target phonological 
aspects including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Pupils reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source several 
times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Pupils recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are heard 
in different contexts.
d) Pupils recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Pupils use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.4.6.R1.  Pupils can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on “life 
in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; 
countries; holidays”.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content.
b) Pupils recognise simple and basic relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Pupils make simple preliminary predictions about the current content based on recognised 
relationships.
ENG.4.6.R2.  Pupils can bring information about the current content on “life in the city and the world with 
healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays” through 
skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Pupils make simple predictions about the topic of the current content by exploring the audio-
visual clues surrounding it.
b) Pupils grasp the topic of the current content generally by looking at the surrounding audio/
visual materials quickly through skimming.
c) Pupils recognise simple and basic details through major components by reading the content 
very quickly and silently through scanning.
ENG.4.6.R3.  Pupils can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content about “life in the city 
and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; 
holidays” by reading it carefully.
a) Pupils check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial predictions that are made 
earlier. 
b) Pupils classify the basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of 
it in a simple and meaningful way.
c) Pupils compare basic elements of the current content that contribute to the perception of it 
in a simple and meaningful way.
d) Pupils recognise basic horizontal/vertical relationships within the current content that 
contribute to the perception of it in a simple and meaningful way.
e) Pupils make simple, basic, and meaningful inferences from the information in the current 
content by examining it.

===== PDF_PAGE_393 =====
393
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
f) Pupils internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to their age and language level.
ENG.4.6.R4.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the reading-
comprehension process about the current content, “life in the city and the world with healthy 
and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays” for reflection in 
relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing them with others very 
simply.
ENG.4.6.V1.  Pupils can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “life in the city 
and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; 
holidays” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and 
effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils hear/view target vocabulary in the current content as a whole in context.
b) Pupils repeat the target vocabulary of the current content as a whole class and in groups 
after hearing/watching the target material and source, together with pointing to the pictures 
displayed in class. 
c) Pupils recognise the use of the target words in the target material and source, by listening/
watching it several times and seeing how and where the target words are used to describe the 
current concept.
d) Pupils associate the contextual meanings of target words reinforced and recognised through 
whole class, group and individual repetition, with pre-existing conceptual meanings in mind. 
e) Pupils recognise the meaning of the target vocabulary whose use is noticed and which are 
repeated through whole class, group and individual repetition.
f) Pupils make use of the semantically related target vocabulary in a spontaneous, authentic 
and natural way in various contextual activities and exercises without analysis with the help of 
recalling their background knowledge (in Turkish in his/her mind).
g) Pupils use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts such as peers at school and friends, family and other people outside the school by 
being aware of their differences.
ENG.4.6.G1.  Pupils can select and use the language including target grammatical elements of the current 
content about “life in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and 
international dishes; countries; holidays” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and 
naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Pupils become familiar with the current content by listening, viewing, and reading it several 
times.
b) Pupils reinforce familiarity with the target content by listening to/watching it several more 
times if necessary, through the recognition of actions involved in it.
c) Pupils listen to/watch an audio/visual/written presentation of current content with target 
language chunks representing target language use, narrated through body language and 
verbal repetition.
d) Pupils gain auditory/visual awareness by listening/watching/reading the presentation of the 
content containing similar language chunks with common structures through body language 
and verbal repetition.

===== PDF_PAGE_394 =====
394
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
e) Pupils repeat target language chunks many times in the current auditory/visual/written context 
many times, without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules, verbally, automatically 
and by pointing.
f) Pupils repeat the auditory/visual/written content containing target language chunks many 
times automatically, naturally, and verbally within short, simple, and meaningful sentences 
without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
g) Pupils act out physically the language chunks in the heard/viewed/seen content without 
knowing, analysing, or thinking about their rules.
h) Pupils repeat the language chunks in the auditory/visual/written content automatically and 
act them out simultaneously and physically without knowing, analysing, or thinking about their 
rules.
i) Pupils automatically select and use similar target language chunks related to the current 
content heard/seen/read in oral communication without knowing, analysing, or thinking about 
their rules.
ENG.4.6.W1.  Pupils can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “life 
in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; 
countries; holidays” in an age- and level-appropriate way.
a) Pupils activate their pre-existing knowledge and experiences used in the initial processes of 
listening/viewing (and/or reading) and associate it with the current content in a simple way.
b) Pupils understand correctly what the current writing task is as guided and assigned.
ENG.4.6.W2.  Pupils can copy the model/example on the writing task about the current content on “life in 
the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; 
countries; holidays” based on the model/example provided to practise for further writing 
activities.
a) Pupils rewrite model/example content and some similar content by imitating it in order to gain 
familiarity with the content to be produced and to develop manual copying skills.
ENG.4.6.W3.  Pupils can organise and form a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“life in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international 
dishes; countries; holidays” based on the model/example provided.
a) Pupils organise a very simple, short, and meaningful content for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task related to the current theme with suitable materials appropriate to the assigned 
writing type, age, and language level.
ENG.4.6.W4.  Pupils can practise writing by constructing content for the assigned writing task on the 
current content “life in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and 
international dishes; countries; holidays”.
a) Pupils use materials, structural features, discourse forms, and punctuation appropriate to the 
assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task. 
b) Pupils select and use target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level for a prepared and/or 
unprepared writing task related to the theme. 
c) Pupils express simple messages clearly for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task related 
to the current theme. 
ENG.4.6.W5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information by reconstructing it in the new written tasks about 
the “life in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international 
dishes; countries; holidays” to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use similar information from the current content in different contexts by simply, 
meaningfully and individually reorganising it.

===== PDF_PAGE_395 =====
395
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Pupils engage in simple written communication by sharing reconstructed meaningful 
information related to the current theme with others.
ENG.4.6.W6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “life in the city and the world with healthy 
and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays” very simply for 
reflection in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process very simply.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation to 
the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others very simply.
ENG.4.6.S1.  Pupils can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “life in 
the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; 
countries; holidays” with the help of supplementary audio-visual materials.
a) Pupils become familiar with model/example content through repetition and imitation after 
completing the stage of recalling pre-existing knowledge and experience used during the 
initial processes of listening/watching/reading and associating it with the current content.
ENG.4.6.S2.  Pupils can imitate the model/example for producing verbal content about the current theme 
on “life in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international 
dishes; countries; holidays”.
a) Pupils become familiar with the model/sample content through repetition and imitation in 
context while and after listening (to)/watching it with the help of audio-visual aids.
ENG.4.6.S3.  Pupils can organise simple new verbal content on “life in the city and the world with healthy 
and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays” by speaking 
accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils design simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations based on the model/sample that was listened (to)/watched 
earlier.
b) Pupils organise simple new verbal content by imitating model/sample content for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the model/sample, context, age, and language 
level.
ENG.4.6.S4.  Pupils can form a simple new verbal content on “life in the city and the world with healthy and 
unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays” through reconstruction 
by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Pupils select and use accurate pronunciation, discourse forms, target words and language 
chunks for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations, by imitating model/example 
content, appropriate to age and language level.
b) Pupils select simple and contextually appropriate content/information quickly for impromptu 
speaking situations and present it in a natural and authentic way with appropriate and accurate 
materials and appropriate to the model/sample, age, language level, and context (question-
answer, pointing and saying, selecting and saying, etc.) within the given (thinking) time.
c) Pupils organise simple and contextually appropriate content for prepared speaking situations 
with accurate and appropriate materials and present it in a natural and authentic way (short 
monologues, dialogues, show and tell, pantomime drama, etc.).
d) Pupils express messages in a concrete, simple and clear way for the listener in prepared and/
or unprepared speaking situations together with mimics, gestures, and body language.

===== PDF_PAGE_396 =====
396
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.6.S5.  Pupils can reorganise and use information about the current theme on “life in the city and the 
world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays” 
by reconstructing it to communicate with other people.
a) Pupils use the presented information in different contexts in a simple, natural, accurate and 
necessary way by reorganising it individually and verbally.
b) Pupils engage in verbal communication by sharing the reconstructed meaningful information 
with others.
ENG.4.6.S6.  Pupils can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the writing-
expression process about the current content, “life in the city and the world with healthy 
and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays” very simply for 
reflection in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Pupils convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been 
in relation to the current writing-expression content and process in a very simple way.
b) Pupils convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been in relation 
to the current writing-expression content and process by sharing them with others in a very 
simple way.

===== PDF_PAGE_397 =====
397
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN THE CITY AND THE WORLD:
Sub-themes: Healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Healthy food items: Green salad, fish, meat, eggs, soup, milk, fruit (an apple, an orange, a banana, a 
strawberry, grapes, a cherry, a pear, a plum, a lemon), yogurt, nuts, vegetables (lettuce, cucumber, spinach, 
broccoli, peas, cauliflower) chicken, turkey, brown rice.
Unhealthy food items: Chips (fries-AmE.), sweets (candies- AmE.), biscuits (cookies- AmE.), a soda, an ice-
cream, a cake, a chocolate, noodles, a burger, a sausage, a pizza, lemonade, pasta.
Dishes: Fish and chips, kebab, moussaka, pizza, tacos, a burger, falafel.
Quantifiers:
Few: not many, (negative, countable)
A few: some (positive, countable)
Little: not much (negative, uncountable)
A little: some (positive, uncountable)
Countries: 
Türkiye, Italy, England, Spain, Greece, Germany, the United States of America, Mexico, Algeria, Turkish 
Republic of Northern Cyprus, Azerbaijan. 
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Language Chunks in Use: 
Be Going to Future” Tense: (+) (-) (?):
Language Chunks: (Where are you going to go on holiday next week? We’re/are going to go to Italy next week). 
(What are you going to eat in Italy on holiday? We’re/are going to eat pizza in Italy on holiday.
Functions: Expressing future plans, intentions, or decisions made prior to speaking.
Countable and uncountable nouns with little, few, a little, a few, no:
Language Chunks: (We are going to make a salad with some lettuce and cucumbers.
We are going to put a few cucumbers in it).
Functions: Describing quantities of countable and uncountable nouns, often to emphasize scarcity or 
sufficiency.
Background Language in Use: 
Superlative forms of adjectives:
Language Chunks:
What is the most delicious food for you in Italy? 
Pasta is the most delicious food for me in Italy.
Where can you eat the most delicious pizza?
We can eat the most delicious pizza in Italy. 
Functions: Comparing multiple items or choices to highlight the highest degree or quality.

===== PDF_PAGE_398 =====
398
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Target Social Language in Use:
It tastes good.
Amazing!
I’m starving.
After you!
Never mind!
Thanks for everything.
That’s enough.
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Vowel: u
Consonants: w, x, y, z
Vowel: u: (/juː/, /ʌ/, /juː/)
Consonants: w: (/w/); x: (/ɛks/, /ks/, /gz/); y: (/waɪ/, /j/, /ɪ/, /iː/); z: /(zed/ (Br), /ziː/ (AmE.), /z/)
*No pronunciation symbols will be included in any material written for the pupils, (only) the sounds will be 
practised through pronunciation activities in the theme.
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations 
The concept of “life in the city and the world” is present in almost all languages because it is one of the 
important parts of some human beings’ lives in different parts of the world. People who start to learn a 
new language bring with them their previous/pre-existing knowledge and transfer it to their new language 
learning. So, a primary school pupil in year 4 will know what “life in the city and the world” means as a concept 
but will not know its equivalents in another language if it has not been covered in their existing foreign 
language curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, 
understand, and learn it more easily in a foreign language, English in this case.
Key Concepts:
Food, dishes, healthy, unhealthy, healthy food, unhealthy food, national dishes, international dishes, 
countries, nationalities, holidays.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Pupils will act as travel agents for “Taste the World Tours” for creating a 
brochure for a food-focused trip to countries like Türkiye or Italy. The brochure will describe famous dishes 
using superlatives, such as “Kebab is from Türkiye. The most delicious kebab is in Türkiye.. Pizza is from Italy. 
The most delicious pizza is in Italy” and includes healthy and unhealthy food options with quantifiers like “a 
few sweets”. Pupils will also outline future plans using “be going to” such as “You are going to try moussaka in 
Türkiye” and mention holidays with traditional foods. They will present their brochures in a sales suggestion 
to their classmates. The class will rate the presentations through the rating scales or checklists given by 
the teacher.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the pupils’ knowledge of the “healthy and unhealthy food; national and international 
dishes; countries; holidays” in their own language. As the pupils are 9-year-old primary school children, they 
can know what “healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays” mean in 
their own language and to be able to express them in their own language.  However, they would not know 
them in a foreign language, in this case English, if they were not covered in their existing English curriculum. 
This knowledge in their own language would prepare them to identify the same concepts in their foreign 
language, English, without speaking any Turkish. It is assumed that they have learnt how to ask what things 
are and how to introduce them using language chunks such as “Where are you going on holiday next week? 

===== PDF_PAGE_399 =====
399
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
We’re/are going to Italy next week. What is your favourite food in Italy? Pasta is my favourite food for me in 
Italy. We are making a salad with some lettuce and cucumber” in English from the previous themes or years. 
These chunks can be used as a basis for learning the new language chunks in the current theme making the 
new chunks easier to learn. This can be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to a 
song/chant/rhyme and so on which will not require a high level of English knowledge and also there will not 
be a need to speak Turkish. 
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that pupils’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about “life in the city and the world” as a concept in English. Some previous themes from previous 
years would be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “healthy 
and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays”. Therefore, a dialogue game can 
be played to revise “life in the city and the world,” they learnt before. Some language chunks are also revised 
by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated 
by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to understand and use previously learnt 
vocabulary and language chunks to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to 
emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and 
chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics and/or checklists.)
Establishing Links
Pupils are asked to recall the current (theme) concept of “life in the city and the world” and its components 
such as “healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays”, by remembering 
their previous/pre-existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own 
language to make links with the current activities in the theme in English without translating anything until 
they start learning the target words in the current concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept 
various visual materials such as a short digital cartoon, a picture, a poster can be prepared and shown (it 
can be a paper picture format if there are technological problems) before the main teaching/learning flow of 
the lesson begins. The pupils are facilitated through the materials they have learnt the concept of it in the 
previous years with various activities. Then they are asked in simple English what was it about. They get help 
from the teacher to be able remember and say. For example the teacher could show the pictures with the 
words next to them so that pupils can remember some vocabulary and language chunks from the previous 
years. The teacher asks them to wait until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the introductory digital story, without asking any further questions.
One of the example practices could be to point correctly to a picture of the current concept in it when they 
are given instructions by the teacher in simple English.  Pupils give responses by pointing out relevant so-
called pictures without speaking any Turkish but only in very simple English or with mimics and gestures.
In this way, connections are made between pre-existing knowledge about the current theme (in their minds) 
in their own language and the present information about the concept through meaningful contextualised 
activities with visuals within the theme.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM UP TO THE WHOLE THEME FOR WELL-BEING
Before starting to work on the theme, to prepare the pupils emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and 
physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the pupils feel positive and 
ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This could be an activity such as playing a 
short game, doing a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, saying a tongue 
twister, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of 
English. This is done only for fun and relaxation. (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4).

===== PDF_PAGE_400 =====
400
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME:
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around a central topic and sub-themes, allowing pupils to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where pupils engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG.4.6.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: After having an activity about the current 
theme during the background recall session, pupils can have a vision of “life in the city and the world” in 
their minds, so a further concept check would help them prepare for the current theme (D3.2, SELS1.1, 
V3.2, LS1, CS2.11, CS2.16.2). For instance, the teacher could bring into the classroom and show a card model 
of a school and sets of pictures about the components of it. The teacher then asks the pupils to point to 
the pictures in or on the model. She/He asks what they think the topic of the main context of the theme, 
the introductory digital story, that they are going to watch is about (V3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.6, CS2.8) . For 
each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several 
times while going through the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language 
expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole theme. It is both an entry material and the main context 
to the whole theme at the same time. (A 3-D model of life in the city and the world can also be created using 
Web 2.0 programmes.) They can guess the sub-concepts of life in the city and the world, so they can easily 
understand that the current theme will be “life in the city and the world” (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, 
V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17).
ENG.4.6.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  To have access to the current 
theme, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story carefully recalling the pictures 
shown earlier (CS2.11). The introductory digital story is watched to identify the target theme “life in the city 
and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays” as a 
whole, without stopping the video at any point, so that the pupils can understand the theme/topic holistically 
(D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.3, V4.5, V5.1, V13.1, V14.3, V17.2, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.14, CS2.16.2).
ENG.4.6.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw the pupils’ attention to 
the content about life in the city and the world and its relevant components, some pictures are brought into 
the classroom by the teacher. The teacher brings a necessary number of large boxes for the pictures (some 
symbols are stuck on the boxes for life in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and 
international dishes; countries; holidays) and puts the boxes on the table. She/He puts the corresponding 
picture into the related box when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the introductory digital 
story without stopping the video while the pupils watch the story (V3.3, V4.5, V5.1, V13.1, V14.3, V17.2, LS1, 
LS5). When they have watched the whole story, the teacher shows the items in the boxes on the table and 
asks some simple display questions about it. In this way, the teacher could carry out a monologue and 
also engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the theme as a whole 
through its components, which can be used to check their learning as described in item (8) in the section 

===== PDF_PAGE_401 =====
401
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, SELS2.1, V4.2, V6.1, LS2, LS4, 
CS2.8). After watching the introductory digital story, the teacher takes all the pictures out of the boxes and 
puts them back on the table again and says the word “life in the city and the world” several times aloud, and 
the pupils repeat after her/him. In this way, the main vocabulary of the theme “life in the city and the world” 
is introduced to the pupils in English. To remember the sequence of the scenes with the parts, places, and 
people in the “life in the city and the world” in the introductory digital story, the teacher shows the mixed 
images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the pupils to look at the images/ pictures of 
these scenes for a while (CS2.3). She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs with the mixed paper 
pictures she has already given to the pupils (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2) . When the pairs have finished 
sorting the pictures for scenes of the story, the teacher asks the pupils to take turns or volunteer to order 
the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board (or the pictures on the blackboard (SELS1.2, V4.1, V14.1, V20.4, 
LS4, CS2.6, CS2.10). This will help the teacher organise the story as a whole so that the pupils can identify 
the main theme and the components of the theme through their memories (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, CS2.12).
ENG.4.6.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V7.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, V20.4, 
LS5, LS6). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design (V10.3).
ENG.4.6.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  To recognise the pronunciation of the new target words, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “life in the city and the world with healthy 
and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays”, the teacher puts on the table the 
pictures and boxes that she/he has previously used. She/He holds up each picture and asks the pupils to 
repeat each word aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to the recordings she/he has prepared 
beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes. She/He puts the picture in the correct box about the group 
corresponding to the word while repeating the words with the whole class (V3.4, V4.5, V5.1, V13.1, V14.3, 
V17.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer variations with some techniques, such as showing 
the picture of the target words about life in the city and the world to the pupils to say the word or pointing 
to the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the recording, and then both. To help the pupils 
pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as 
a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then again as 
volunteers, using the shadow technique, in which pupils immediately repeat whatever the teacher is saying 
or the story, without pausing (D1.3, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V3.4, V7.1, LS2, CS2.14).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Practice of pronunciation could be extended with 
different forms of TPR activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words for the life in the city and the 
world and its components, the pupils listen; then the teacher says the target words and acts them out, the 
pupils repeat after her/him (SELS2.1, CS2.6). Then the teacher and the pupils say the target words and act 
them out together at the same time. Then the pupils say the words, and the teacher acts them out (V3.4, 
V4.2, V15.1, LS4). These “life in the city and the world”-related actions can be done through the actions which 
can be done in the school, but they are only used for acting without teaching them as verbs in English. For 
instance, they can pretend to do things according to the topic. As a variation, they can also repeat the words 
after the teacher happily, sadly, angrily etc. using different tones of voice through TPR techniques (SELS2.3, 
V11.1, V12.2, LS5, CS2.9).  Then some groups of pupils say the words, some groups of pupils act them out. 
While doing the repetitions, they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different places 

===== PDF_PAGE_402 =====
402
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
in the classroom. Some action sequences are also created through which the pupils can practise the social 
language expressions of the theme in a fun way by repeating, pointing, and miming in several games. Several 
fun pronunciation games could be played where pupils whisper a target word into the ears of their peers 
forming a chain and the last person says it aloud and the class checks if the word is pronounced correctly 
or not (D2.5, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.3, V4.4, V6.2, LS6, CS2.12).  Their learning is evaluated as described in 
items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.6.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS : The teacher facilitates reading activities 
throughout the theme when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary amount. 
Reading is quite limited for this age group and it is done in two ways in the theme, by using a short extract 
from the written version of the introductory digital story and/or additional short reading texts in reading 
sections of the teaching materials to be used. The texts are very short, precise, and simple, as they are 
limited reading texts. Various reading styles including reading aloud, chorus reading, silent reading, and 
speed reading are used as main styles. Basic reading techniques such as skimming, scanning, and reading 
for detail are used in very simplified ways. Pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases are used 
in a simplified and age-appropriate way in the theme. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to increase 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills, support the ability to comprehend and 
help talk/write about the content in a meaningful and communicative way. In this way pupils’ language and 
communicative competence improve gradually (V3.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.6, CS3.3). For the initial stage of 
reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at quickly the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, 
scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory 
story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the 
conceptual meanings they already have about the theme on “life in the city and the world with healthy and 
unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays” (V3.3, V4.5, V5.1, V13.1, V14.3, V17.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.8). At this stage, the teacher could ask the pupils to read the title/heading of the content 
and ask the pupils which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title by 
showing them a list of words and corresponding pictures to choose the ones they know (SELS1.1, V3.4, LS1, 
CS2.16.2). She/He reminds them not to ask for the meanings of new words or the words they do not know. 
She/He reminds them that this is only a recalling activity to check the words they know and that there will be 
time to work on the new words of the new theme later (D3.2, D3.6, V12.1, CS2.10, CS2.12).
ENG.4.6.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: To see the written forms of the target words and 
to do some simple reading, the teacher asks the pupils to look at the Smart Board where she/he shows a 3-D 
house model of “life in the city and the world” (that she/he has used earlier). Next to each item, the written 
form of the word is provided on the model. The teacher asks the pupils to read the words first silently. The 
teacher then points to a word at random and asks the pupils to read it out loud as a whole class. Then she/he 
invites volunteers to come to the board and they point to different words and the rest of the class read them 
aloud as a chorus (D2.3, SELS1, V3.4, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG.4.6.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  The teacher then shows (a short extract from) the written version 
of the introductory digital story (or another text about the theme) on the blackboard/Smart Board. She/ He 
asks the pupils to read after her/him using the shadow reading technique as a whole class. She/He could also 
try different versions such as pyramid reading or radio reading techniques (reading silently for a while and 
then aloud, then silently, and so on) which are the combinations of silent and aloud reading using rhythms 
as prompts (V3.4, V7.2). After reading the words/word groups/clauses in the content, pupils proceed with 
the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, and semantic meaning relatively 

===== PDF_PAGE_403 =====
403
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
with the help of the teacher. For dealing with the semantic meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with 
meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, open-ended, and communicative ones (SELS2.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.14). From display to communicative open-ended, various types of questions are used to 
understand the meaning of the short and simple texts about “life in the city and the world with healthy and 
unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays” (V4.5, V5.1, V13.1, V14.3, V17.2, LS5, 
SELS3.1, SELS3.2). During this process pupils work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and 
feelings (SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.6). This is evaluated as described in items (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.6.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: 
The teacher asks pupils to think about the reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them (V20.4, CS2.15). Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V12.2, LS1). The 
teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design (V4.4, V10.3).
ENG.4.6.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: At this stage, pupils remember what the theme is 
about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/watching, 
and pre-reading sessions (SELS1.1, V3.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal 
with the main components and target vocabulary of the theme.
ENG.4.6.V2.
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To introduce the meaning of the vocabulary related to the 
theme “life in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; 
countries; holidays”, the teacher asks the pupils to watch the introductory digital story again. A scanning 
activity to find out the main details of the introductory digital story (and/or a new text in the reading section) 
is organised to help pupils to know more about the content. This could help them identify what the target 
words in the text could be about. The activity could be designed by listing some pictures for the vocabulary 
about the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text (V3.3, V3.4, V4.5, V5.1, V13.1, 
V14.3, V17.2, LS5). Pupils circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned (quickly read) in the 
story/text. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general by using the main elements 
and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then, from the 
beginning, whenever an item related to “life in the city and the world” is mentioned, the teacher stops the 
video and asks a question in the form of two options by showing their pictures (CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing 
what they are based on the pictures, the scene, and the sound, pupils hear the English equivalents of the 
words for the life in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; 
countries; holidays, and they answer as a whole class. In this way, they are introduced to the meaning of the 
target words (D1.1, V4.5, V5.1, V13.1, V14.3, V17.2, LS5, CS2.10). This is done in the form of a dialogue where 
their learning can be checked as described in items (SELS2.1) (3) and (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.2, V14.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.4.6.V3.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To check whether the pupils are aware of the components 
of the main theme “life in the city and the world”, the teacher prepares an activity using the Web 2.0 program 
with images/pictures of components of “life in the city and the world”. She/He prepares three boxes on one 

===== PDF_PAGE_404 =====
404
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
side of the screen and mixed images/ pictures for target vocabulary related to the “life in the city and the 
world” on the other side. She/He asks the pupils to look at the mixed pile of images/pictures on the Smart 
Board screen and scan them for a while to remember them (CS2.4). She/He asks the pupils to drag the 
objects about the components of the theme into the correct box on the screen. The boxes have the words 
for each component represented on them with symbolic pictures. The pupils are given the cut-out pictures 
and a large sheet of paper with the pictures of empty boxes. The teacher asks them to work in pairs and put 
the cut-out pictures in the right box and ask each other several display questions (CS2.5). When the pupils 
have finished working with the cut-outs and asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks 
them to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures as the 
components of the theme “life in the city and the world” to the correct empty boxes on the screen (SELS1.2, 
CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the concept of the theme “life in the city and the 
world” are consolidated through categorisation. The same activity can be done with real pictures on the 
white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. To practise the meanings of the target words about 
the school, the teacher places several pictures for them in the different parts of the classroom. She/He 
then puts some flashcards with the target vocabulary for “life in the city and the world” on the blackboard/
whiteboard. She/He takes a flashcard at random and shows it to the pupils. Pupils, working in pairs, look at 
the flashcard, decide which picture on the classroom walls is relevant, they go to the picture together, pin 
the flashcard to the noticeboard and say the word together first in pairs, and then as a whole class (SELS2.1, 
SELS2.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.5). To consolidate the meanings of the new vocabulary items for the 
concept of “life in the city and the world”, the teacher could organise several activities in pairs and groups 
with pictures and flashcards such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, etc. (SELS2.2). These 
activities are closed and controlled so that pupils can practise the current (new) vocabulary about the 
current context in the beginning but later they work with simple and easy open-ended and communicative 
activities (D2.5, SELS3.1, V4.2, V7.2, LS5). This is evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (8), (9), and (10) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The teacher asks the pupils to 
copy the words in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling using the words written on the model school on the blackboard/
Smart Board (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). This is evaluated as described in items (3) and 
(4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.6.G1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS:  To draw the pupils’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme, the introductory digital story is played so that the pupils can notice the target 
language chunks about the theme “life in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and 
international dishes; countries; holidays” (D3.2, V4.5, V5.1, V13.1, V14.3, V17.2, LS5, CS2.2). While the pupils 
watch the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks 
are used. She/He imitates the action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the pupils to do 
the same (CS2.14). She/He could hold up large pictures and ask the pupils questions about the pictures 
with the target chunks expecting the pupils to ask and answer by using the target chunks. To check the 
pupils’ identification of the target language chunks, the teacher shows some picture strips that she/he has 
prepared for this activity, using some Web 2.0 programmes, after the pupils have watched the introductory 
digital story and imitated the actions and said the target language chunks. She/He asks the pupils to listen to 
her/him saying a target language chunk and then to look at the screen and say “Stop!” when they see a scene 
in the picture strips with the target chunk that the teacher has just said (SELS3.1, CS2.7). The teacher stops 
if the pupils are correct, but not if they are not (V3.3, V4.1, V7.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).
ENG.4.6.G2.
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate pupils’ practice with the target language 
chunks, the teacher prepares necessary number of headings on the screen with symbols for the components 
of the theme “life in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; 

===== PDF_PAGE_405 =====
405
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
countries; holidays”, and writes the appropriate language chunks to be used with each of the groups. She/
He also provides the vocabulary items on the Smart Board screen. The teacher wants the pupils to think 
for a while and talk with their peers about which target words can be used in which language chunk group 
(SELS2.2, V3.1, V4.5, V5.1, V10.3, V13.1, V14.3, V17.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.4). Then the pupils go to the board 
and move the words under the correct heading and say the complete sentence with the target words and 
the chunks. They are then asked to say a sentence with the target chunk aloud as a class. Each sentence is 
repeated after each pair. Their learning can be checked as described in items (5), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. The same game can be played with pictures on 
the blackboard if there are technological/technical problems (D2.5). To organise the pupils’ further practice 
to consolidate the target language chunks, the teacher could create some action sequences in context by 
repeating, saying, and acting out with different activity bundles where their learning can be checked as 
described in items (5), (8), (9), and (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum (CS2.13). There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Pupils can 
automatically, spontaneously, and naturally select and use the target language chunks in the current context 
(SELS3.1, V3.4, V4.2, V7.1, LS5, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  For consolidation of the target language chunks, 
the teacher can facilitate more fun activities and games so that the pupils can practise and consolidate 
them (V4.4, V7.2).
ENG.4.6.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION:  Writing activities help pupils produce and 
display meaningful written language for their personal expression and communication with others, by using 
language including target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language in this theme which 
is about “life in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; 
countries; holidays” as in other themes. Writing activities are arranged according to age and level so they are 
quite limited and are gradually expanded (V3.2, V3.4, V4.5, V5.1, V13.1, V14.3, V17.2, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.4.6.W2.
COPYING FROM THE MODEL: Initially, pupils produce very limited and short pieces of writing, such as words 
and word groups to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening/watching and reading activities in the theme. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat, answering simple questions with 
a limited number of words, or simply explaining in context what they hear and see and what they are asked 
to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy. By copying a simple written model, they get used 
to seeing and using the target words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on in written language 
(D3.1, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). To further practise guided and copied writing, the teacher gives 
all the pupils some paper/cardboard to make a model in groups (SELS2.1, SELS2.2) (of two, three, four etc.) 
and to write the names of the vocabulary items “life in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; 
national and international dishes; countries; holidays” next to their drawings on the model related to life in 
the city and the world. The teacher asks them to look at the Smart Board screen with the model related to 
life in the city and the world that she/he has made earlier so that the pupils can easily copy the target words 
for the items as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum (V4.4, V7.3, V4.5, V5.1, V13.1, V14.3, V17.2, LS4, LS5).
ENG.4.6.W3.
CREATING CONTENT BASED ON THE MODEL:  For practising more with the written forms of the target 
words, language chunks, and the social language for the theme, new contexts are created in the form of a 
new animated short story or a dialogue for the pupils to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading/writing 
(copying) the target words and language chunks about the concept of “life in the city and the world” in fun, 

===== PDF_PAGE_406 =====
406
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities. This new content is contextual, simple, practical, and appropriate 
to the pupils’ age and language level (D1.2, D1.6, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.20).
ENG.4.6.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Pupils are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as clauses, sentences, acronyms, messages, posters, e-mails, poems, songs and so on 
to express their ideas, thoughts, and feelings (D2.5, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level (V3.4, 
V7.2, LS1, LS4).
ENG.4.6.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Pupils interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the written language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme “life in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy 
food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays” from simple to more expanded versions in their 
writing (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V4.2, V4.5, V5.1, V13.1, V14.3, V15.1, V17.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based 
technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also 
produce simple digital materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways (D3.3, SELS3.2, 
SELS3, V3.4, V7.2, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These activities can be evaluated as described in items (8), (9), (10), 
(11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG.4.6.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing expression process and asks them to express their  
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process in simple ways, for instance by using emoticons, symbols, 
drawings, charts etc. (D1.5, SELS1.3, V4.2, LS1, CS2.15).  Pupils express what they think and feel about 
them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs (D2.4, D3.5, V12.1, V15.1, 
SELS2.2). The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and  
collaborative design (V10.3, LS4).
ENG.4.6.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from 
the first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance pupils’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language 
including the target words, grammatical structures, and the social language expressions of the theme about 
“life in the city and the world with healthy and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; 
holidays” (V3.2, V4.2, V4.5, V5.1, V13.1, V14.3, V17.2, LS1, LS4, LS5).
ENG.4.6.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL:  In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, pupils 
recognise the language with the target language items through the models (CS2.6). They practise the 
language in a controlled way, by telling, repeating, and imitating what they hear and see in the context (D1.3, 
D3.2, SELS3, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.4). The spoken content of the model becomes a path for them to follow.

===== PDF_PAGE_407 =====
407
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.4.6.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new and simple photo/picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities for the pupils to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc. (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.1, LS1, LS4, CS2.13).
ENG.4.6.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Pupils are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as simple dialogues, short texts etc. To interact and to communicate with 
peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “life in the city and the world with healthy 
and unhealthy food; national and international dishes; countries; holidays” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V4.5, 
V5.1, V11.1, V13.1, V14.3, V17.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various 
activities, giving pupils access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects 
at school and at home through recordings for developing their oral skills (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, 
V3.4, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).
ENG.4.6.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Pupils communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related 
to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS2.3, CS2.20). Picture strip stories can 
be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision. These new contents created 
are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the pupils’ age, interests, and language level. 
Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used together with other 
further speaking practice throughout the theme (V3.4, V15.1, LS1) . Pupils are encouraged to produce 
several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, show and tell activities, acting 
out activities to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by 
using the language including the target words, language grammar in use, and the social language for the 
theme “life in the city and the world” and its components such as “healthy and unhealthy food; national and 
international dishes; countries; holidays” (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V4.5, V5.1, V7.2, V13.1, V14.3, V17.2, 
LS4, LS5, CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving pupils access to 
authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items 
(7), (8), (9), (10), (11), and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
Then they can expand their language use and practise by communicating with others.
ENG.4.6.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The 
teacher asks pupils to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process (SELS1.3, V4.2). Some volunteer pupils express what they 
think and feel about them. Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V12.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.15).  The teacher 
facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design 
(V4.3, V10.3).

===== PDF_PAGE_408 =====
408
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
TEACHER REFLECTION: She/He can keep a class journal in which she/he makes notes about what worked 
or didn’t work in teaching the theme and pupils’ learning and the potential reasons for this to find solutions. 
She/He can ask a colleague to observe her/his lessons and give feedback on the lessons (peer observation). 
She/He can also discuss the whole teaching process with her colleagues to specify the challenges faced 
throughout the whole current theme.
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To identify and talk about national and international dishes and holidays in English by using the 
target vocabulary and target chunks.
Activity 1: Plan a Holiday Meal Activity 
Pupils choose a country, such as Türkiye, Italy, or Greece, and describe the foods they plan to eat using the 
target language chunks. They answer questions such as, “Where are you going on holiday?”, “What food are 
you going to eat there?” and “What is the most delicious food in that country?”. For example, a pupil might 
say, “I am going to go to Türkiye. I am going to eat kebab and a little rice. Kebab is the most delicious food in 
Türkiye”. This activity encourages pupils to practice target vocabulary and language chunks while discussing 
preferences and plans. The teacher provides positive feedback to motivate them. Pupils reflect on their 
thoughts and feelings about the activity by using emoticons.
Supporting
Objective: To identify national and international dishes in English by using the target vocabulary and target 
chunks.
Activity 1: World Food Map Activity
Pupils work with a blank world map and pictures of dishes such as kebab, tacos, pizza, falafel, and fish and 
chips. They match each dish to its corresponding country and create sentences to describe their findings. 
For example, they say, “Pizza is from Italy”, “Kebab is from Türkiye”. This activity helps pupils connect dishes 
with their countries of origin while practicing vocabulary and sentence structure. The teacher provides 
positive feedback to motivate them. Pupils reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity by using 
emoticons.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_409 =====
409
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
YEAR 5 
 (LEVEL: A2.1) 
THEME 1: SCHOOL LIFE
Sub-themes: People, places and rules at school; 
school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations
This theme is centred on the concept of “school life” and covers the sub-
themes of “school life with people, places and rules at school; school clubs; 
countries; national days and celebrations”. These components (sub-themes) 
are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised use of 
target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and social 
language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed to 
be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within 
and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8.Questioning
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1 Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2 Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V10. Modesty, V12. 
Patience, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V19. Patriotism, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_410 =====
410
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Physical Education and Sports, Visual Arts, 
Music, Information Technologies and Software
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information 
Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. 
Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based 
Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring 
Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. 
Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. 
Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing 
Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical 
Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_411 =====
411
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 5 is structured based on semi-holistic/semi-inductive approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.5.1.L1.  Students can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “school life with people, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national 
days and celebrations” carefully.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience related to the current theme 
and content by recalling their background knowledge imaginatively in her/his own language 
without speaking it.
b) Students identify significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge and 
experiences and the clues to the current content without translation.
c) Students make predictions about the current content on “school life” by using the relationships 
that they recognised accurately by looking at the provided realia, pictures, and context.
d) Students make predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/visual 
elements in relation to the current theme.
ENG.5.1.L2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “school life with people, places 
and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations” together through 
significant details and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Students comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole.
b) Students recognise the significant details and components within the whole current content 
by listening (to) and watching it again in a careful manner.
ENG.5.1.L3.  Students can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “school life with 
people, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations” 
through significant details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Students check any initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals surrounding the current 
content.
b) Students make important and necessary classifications in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
c) Students make important and necessary comparisons in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content with the help of classifications and comparisons made 
earlier.
e) Students make significant inferences that contribute to the understanding of the meaning of 
the generally perceived current content.
f) Students construct the meaning of the current content in detail through the classifications/
comparisons/inferences made earlier in relation to it.
g) Students internalise the current content in an individualised and appropriate way according to 
age and language level.
ENG.5.1.L4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully 
about the whole listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content 
on “school life with people, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days 
and celebrations”.
a) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content.

===== PDF_PAGE_412 =====
412
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content by sharing them with others.
ENG.5.1.P1.  Students can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“school life with people, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and 
celebrations” accurately, authentically, and naturally through spontaneous decision-making 
processes and use it in an appropriate and effective way when communicating with others.
a) Listening to the current content by paying attention to the target phonological aspects 
including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Students reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source 
several times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Students recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts.
d) Students recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they 
are heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Students use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.5.1.R1.  Students can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“school life with people, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and 
celebrations”. 
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content efficiently.
b) Students recognise significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Students make significant preliminary predictions about the current content based on 
recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring the audio-visual 
clues surrounding it.
ENG.5.1.R2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “school life with people, places 
and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations” through skimming 
(looking quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Students review the current content by looking at the surrounding audio/visual materials to 
identify what it is about in general through skimming.
b) Students read the current content to scan the major components silently and quickly with the 
help of the clues provided. 
c) Students carefully read the current content silently and carefully to find significant details and 
components belonging to the theme.
ENG.5.1.R3.  Students can make meaning of / derive meaning from the current content about “school life 
with people, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations” 
by reading it carefully.
a) Students carefully check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial and detailed 
predictions that are made earlier. 
b) Students classify the significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
c) Students compare significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.

===== PDF_PAGE_413 =====
413
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships within the current 
content that contribute to the perception of the content in a meaningful way.
e) Students make meaningful inferences from the information in the current content by 
examining it carefully.
f) Students internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to age and language level.
ENG.5.1.R4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “school life with people, places 
and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations” in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have 
been carefully examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process.
b) Students convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been carefully 
examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing 
them with others.
c) Students produce new products related to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities. 
ENG.5.1.V1.  Students can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “school life with 
people, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations” 
accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively 
when communicating with others.
a) Students guess the main topic of the current content from the audio/visual/written elements 
(e.g. sound, voices, scenes, written words) in the contextual material by listening (to)/watching/
reading it several times for recognition.
b) Students recognise sub-themes/key components of the target words to which they belong in 
the current content by scanning.
c) Students recognise the target words related to the main components of the current content 
with the help of the audio/visual/written elements and other clues.
d) Repeating aloud the relevant target key components and target vocabulary in the current 
content with the whole class, in groups, and then individually together with or after listening 
(to)/watching/reading the source material.
e) Students recognise the use of target words and expressions in the current content by making 
various guesses with the help of supplementary elements.
f) Students make context-appropriate selections automatically by associating target words 
with their pre-existing conceptual meanings in the mind without analysing their contextual 
meaning in detail. 
g) Students use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts by being aware of their differences when communicating with others.
ENG.5.1.G1.  Students can select and use the target grammatical elements of the current content about 
“school life with people, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and 
celebrations” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately 
and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Being familiar with the current content by listening (to)/watching/reading it a few times 
attentively.
b) Students listen (to)/watch/read the same content, attentively and mindfully, including the use 
of target grammatical chunks presented verbally in context with the help of body language.

===== PDF_PAGE_414 =====
414
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students verbally and automatically repeat simple and meaningful clauses/sentences 
containing target grammatical chunks that they have noticed in the current content that they 
have heard/viewed/read without explicit knowledge of the rules.
d) Students act out physically the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks 
in the current content heard/viewed/read by repeating them several times without knowing, 
analysing, and thinking about their rules.
e) Students see and read the example sentences containing target grammatical chunks provided 
for language awareness carefully.
f) Students gain awareness of clauses/sentences that contain target grammatical chunks that 
are presented for the purpose of raising language awareness.
g) Students recognise the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks when 
they encounter them by seeing and/or hearing them in different contexts.
h) Students use the recognised target grammatical chunks naturally, authentically, and 
automatically in new contextual tasks and activities without analysing their rules.
i) Students produce new and meaningful verbal/written content about the current theme by 
using the target grammatical chunks in meaningful tasks without knowing and analysing their 
rules.
j) Students use the target language chunks authentically, automatically, and naturally in 
communication processes without analysing their rules in meaningful contexts.
ENG.5.1.W1.  Students can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on 
“school life with people, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and 
celebrations”.
a) Students relate their pre-existing knowledge and experience used in the initial processes of 
writing-expression skills to the current content by activating them in relation with the current 
content.
b) Students understand what the writing task and its content are in relation to the current 
content correctly by making use of their pre-existing knowledge and experience as guided and 
assigned.
ENG.5.1.W2.  Students can understand the model/example for the writing task about the current content 
on “school life with people, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days 
and celebrations”.
a) Students understand the components and details of the content in the provided model/
sample which is displayed as a guide, by examining it carefully.
ENG.5.1.W3.  Students can organise a content for the assigned writing task on the current content “school 
life with people, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and 
celebrations” based on the model/example provided.
a) Students conduct preliminary research for a prepared writing situation according to the 
current content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
b) Students develop a simple draft for a prepared/or unprepared writing task about the current 
content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
c) Students organise and/or produce materials relevant to the content for a prepared/
unprepared writing task, appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level. 
ENG.5.1.W4.  Students can individually construct/form content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “school life with people, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national 
days and celebrations”.
a) Students present appropriate and accurate materials for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task about the current theme according to the assigned writing type, age, and language 
level.

===== PDF_PAGE_415 =====
415
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and rules relevant to the assigned writing 
type for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language chunks accurately and appropriately 
for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task about the current content by selecting them 
according to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
d) Students express important messages in the written current content to the reader accurately 
and appropriately for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
ENG.5.1.W5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information in the new written tasks about the 
“school life with people, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and 
celebrations” to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information in the current content or similar information in a different content 
by internalising and selecting it individually and reorganising it as required and meaningfully in 
different contexts.
b) Students exchange information/ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge meaningfully with others.
ENG.5.1.W6.  Students can reflect on their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to 
the writing-expression process about the current content, “school life with people, places 
and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations” in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in 
relation to the current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in relation to the 
writing-expression process about the current content with others.
c) Students produce new written products related to the current writing-expression content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities.
ENG.5.1.S1.  Students can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on 
“school life with people, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and 
celebrations”.
a) Students make connections with the current content by activating their pre-existing 
knowledge and experiences that they have recalled in the listening (to)/watching/reading 
sections previously.
ENG.5.1.S2.  Students can use the model/example for producing verbal content about the current content 
on “school life with people, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days 
and celebrations”.
a) Students listen (to)/watch/read the model/example for the current content with the help of 
audio/visual/written elements.
ENG.5.1.S3.  Students can organise a new verbal content on “school life with people, places and rules at 
school; school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations” by speaking accurately, 
efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students recognise what form and type of content is expected and assigned for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations based on audio/visual/written content as provided in the 
model/example.
b) Students organise the content for prepared/unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate 
and accurate way as they have heard/seen/read in the model/example.
c) Students develop a draft for prepared/unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the 
age and language level as presented in the model/sample content.

===== PDF_PAGE_416 =====
416
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students organise supplementary audio/visual/written materials for prepared/or unprepared 
speaking situations, appropriate to age and language level, as provided in the model/sample 
content.
e) Students organise the information about the current content to be presented for prepared/or 
unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate way as required.
ENG.5.1.S4.  Students can construct a new verbal content on “school life with people, places and rules 
at school; school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations” by speaking accurately, 
efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students use target pronunciation, vocabulary, language chunks, and forms of discourse 
related to the current content effectively by selecting them accurately and appropriately for 
prepared/unprepared speaking situations.
b) Students present individually prepared content in an accurate and efficient way as presented 
in the model/example for prepared speaking situations clearly, efficiently, and appropriately.
c) Students present individually prepared information in an accurate and efficient way as 
presented in the model/example for unprepared speaking situations.
d) Students express the message about the current content clearly to the reader by using all 
supplementary elements and body language in an appropriate and accurate way in context for 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.5.1.S5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information about the “school life with people, 
places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations” to 
communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information presented in the current content by reorganising it appropriately, 
efficiently, individually, and verbally in different contexts.
b) Students engage in appropriate and efficient verbal communication by sharing the 
reconstructed meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.5.1.S6.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
speaking-expression process about the current content, “school life with people, places and 
rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations” to communicate with 
other people in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully in 
relation to the speaking-expression process about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_417 =====
417
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
SCHOOL LIFE: 
Sub-Themes: People, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for people, places and rules at school: Nouns: A department, a gate, a noise, a uniform, a lab, 
a sports field, a secretary, a coach, an assistant, (no) shouting, a conference hall, a canteen, a library, a 
notice board, an administration department. Verbs: To fight.
Vocabulary for school clubs: Nouns: A drama club, a maths club, a technology club, an environment club, 
an art club, a music club, a sports club, a chess club, a science club, a film club, a ballet club, a folk dance 
club. Verbs: To organise, to solve, to arrange.
Vocabulary for countries: Türkiye, the United States of America (USA), the United Kingdom (UK) (England, 
Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales), Canada, Australia, France, Italy, Spain, Argentina, Brazil, China, Japan, 
Mexico, Russia, South Korea, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, 
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Simple Present Tense (do you like + ing): (Do you like reading books in your free time?).
-Modals “Mustn’t & Can’t” (prohibition): (You mustn’t run in the classroom).
-“To be Present”: (I am a student at this school). 
-Wh- questions (who, what): (What is your favourite subject in/at school?)
-A, an, the: (The Eiffel Tower is in France).
-Imperatives: (Please sit down and relax).
-Personal pronouns: I, you, he, she, we, you, they (He loves playing video games).
Functions of the Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of the Simple Present Tense (do you like + ing): Asking preferences about activities.
-Use of Modals “Mustn’t & Can’t” (prohibition): Expressing obligations or rules.
-Use of “To Be Present”: Expressing a state, a condition, an identity or a location. 
-Use of “a, an, the”: Referring to a specific or non-specific noun.
-Use of Personal Pronouns: Indicating who is involved in the action, possession, or other relationships in a 
sentence.
-Use of Imperatives: Giving commands.
-Use of “Wh- questions (who, what)”: Asking about people, things, actions, time and ideas.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”. 
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate 
sections wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and  Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage  will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table of contents for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum. 

===== PDF_PAGE_418 =====
418
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Target Social Language in Use: 
Let’s get started!
Line up, nice and straight!
Follow the rules and play safe!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use: 
-Intonation of positive statements
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “school life” and its components such as “people, places and rules at school; 
school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations” is present in almost all languages. People who start 
to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to their new language 
learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what “school life” and its components 
such as “people, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations” means 
but will not know how to say them in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing 
curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, 
and learn the new information more easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts:
people, places, rules; people, places, and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days,  celebrations.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will create a colourful poster about a fictional international school, 
including people, places, rules, school clubs, and countries. They will describe important school staff such 
as the headmaster/headmistress or teachers, highlight places such as the library or sports field, and list 
three key rules such as “Be on time” or “No running in the corridor”. The poster will also include information 
about two school clubs with simple descriptions of their activities. The assignment will be evaluated by using 
a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “school life” and its components such as “people, places 
and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations”. As they are lower secondary 
school students in year 5 (five), they can know what “school life” and its components such as “people, places 
and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations” mean in their own language as it 
is known that almost all people who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their 
own language) with them and transfer it to their new language learning context. However, they may not know 
how to say these things in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. 
Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn 
them more easily in a foreign language, in this case English. As they are students in year 5 of lower secondary 
school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “school life” and also some necessary structures in 
English from the previous themes and/or years such as “a school, a teacher, a classroom etc.”  and “This is 
a school. This is my teacher etc.” These grammatical items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision 
Programme” at the beginning of the year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary 
and grammatical items in the current theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme 
can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “school life” and its components such as “people, places and rules at school; school 
clubs; countries; national days and celebrations”. Recalling and practising with relevant vocabulary and 

===== PDF_PAGE_419 =====
419
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as a basis for 
moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “school life”. Their knowledge of the “days of 
the week and holidays” will help them learn and practise important national holidays such as “the Republic 
Day of Türkiye”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary and language chunks from 
the previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, 
their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to 
understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the current 
theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to 
facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by 
rubrics throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students can recall the current (theme) concept of “school life” and its components such as “people, places 
and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations” by remembering their pre-
existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make 
links with the current activities in the current theme in English without translating anything until they start 
learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
various materials such as short scene from a film, series, a part from a story, a poster etc. which is appropriate 
to the age, level, and pedagogy could be used before the main teaching/learning flow of the class begins. 
They would give a general idea of the theme. Students are facilitated with the relevant materials through 
various activities.  When they have finished working on it, the teacher asks them in English if they understood 
what was it about. For checking their understanding, she can design several activities. For instance, they 
can write a related word that they know in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways can be tried.
The teacher asks them to wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the digital introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any 
further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme  ‘’school life” in the classroom, to prepare the students emotionally, 
cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker 
to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This 
could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing 
a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote/a very short story, watching a 
pantomime/cartoon story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require 
any knowledge of English  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4). 
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills  (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection 
and use) are used in an integrated way around ‘’school life” and sub-themes “school life with people, places 
and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national days and celebrations” , allowing students to build 
background knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. 
They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes 
of the theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, 
they are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_420 =====
420
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.1.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: Having seen a visual about and having guessed 
the topic of ’school life” during the background recall session, students can have a vision of the current theme 
as a general concept in the current  (new) theme  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, V4.5, V14.3, V19.1, V19.2,LS1, LS4, 
LS5, LS6, CS2.11, CS2.16.2). So, a further concept check with listening/watching for gist activities including 
more guessing games using clues from some pictures, realia, short video clips etc. help them prepare for 
the current theme  (CS2.6, CS2.8).  For each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as the main context 
of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through the theme to cover target pronunciation, 
vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole theme  (CS2.14).  
It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. The teacher asks 
them whether their guesses during the background recall session were correct and also what they think the 
introductory digital story that they are going to watch could be about  (CS2.8).  As they have already seen 
a scene from a film about the theme and the pictures, realia, etc. they can easily answer what the current 
theme will be about and that their guesses were true  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.3, V3.4, V16.3, LS2, 
LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17). 
ENG5.1.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING: The teacher asks the students to 
watch the introductory digital story carefully, recalling the work done with visuals  (the scene from a film, 
pictures, realia, or video clips about the theme shown earlier)   (CS2.11 ).  Students watch the introductory 
digital story to consolidate the identification of the theme’’school life ‘’ in it as a whole  (CS2.13)  without 
stopping the video at any point, so that the students can understand the theme holistically  (D3.2, SELS1.1, 
V3.3, V3.4, V4.5, V14.3, V16.3, V19.1, V19.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, LS6,CS2.14, CS2.16.2). 
ENG5.1.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw students’ attention to the 
content, some realia brought into the classroom by the teacher could be used  (V4.5, V14.3, V16.3, V19.1, 
V19.2, LS5, LS6).  The teacher could show the corresponding objects to the students when the corresponding 
vocabulary for the main components of the theme ’school life”  is mentioned in the introductory digital story, 
without stopping the video while the students watch the story  (CS2.6).  When they have watched the whole 
story, the teacher could show the realia items on the table and ask questions with two options  (CS2.5).  
As one of the words is from the previous themes, students could hear, understand, recognise and learn 
the  (new) target vocabulary for each main component of the theme easily  (CS2.1).  In this way, the teacher 
could engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the components of the 
theme, and that they have understood each realia item is about one component  (CS2.8).  Further activities 
and games can be played at this stage to reinforce the general meaning of the theme through its main 
components  (D1.1, D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4). 
To check whether the students understand the general topic of the theme ’school life”  and remember the 
sequence of the scenes of the introductory digital story, the teacher shows an organiser with the mixed 
images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the students to look at the images/pictures 
of the scenes for a while  (CS2.3).  She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs in their seats with 
the mixed paper pictures she/he has already given to the students  (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS4, LS6 ). 
When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for the scenes of the story, the teacher asks the students 
to take turns or volunteer to sort the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board  (or the pictures on the 
blackboard)  (SELS1.2, CS2.6, CS2.10) .  This will help the students to organise the story as a whole so that 
they can identify the main theme and the components of the theme from their memories  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, 
V16.3, V20.4, CS2.12). 

===== PDF_PAGE_421 =====
421
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.1.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/ W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY : The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process   (SELS1.3, V3.4) . Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  ( CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3,V12.1, 
LS5, LS6).  The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design  (V10.3). 
ENG5.1.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION : To practise pronunciation of the new target words, word 
groups, language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme ’school life”  and the words 
and/or word groups for the sub-themes “school life with people, places and rules at school; school clubs; 
countries; national days and celebrations”   the teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the whole or 
some extracts from the introductory digital story by noticing how words are pronounced  (V3.3, V4.5, V14.3, 
V16.3, V19.1, V19.2, LS4, LS5, LS6, CS2.6).  She/He asks them to repeat the word aloud when she/he stops 
the video for a word and says it. The teacher then asks the students to listen and repeat the same words aloud 
a few times as a whole class after listening to the recordings that she/he has prepared beforehand using 
some Web 2.0 programmes  (LS2, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer variations with some techniques such 
as showing the picture of the target word to the students to say the word or pointing to the corresponding 
picture when they hear the word from the recording, and then both  (CS2.8).  To help the students pronounce 
the words accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class 
after her/him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers  (D3.2, 
D3.6, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, CS2.14). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Practice of pronunciation could be done with different 
forms of TPR, gamification and drama activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words/word groups
for the sub-themes “school life with people, places and rules at school; school clubs; countries; national 
days and celebrations”, the students listen  (CS2.9); then the teacher says the target words/word groups and 
acts them out, the students repeat after her/him  (SELS2.1, CS2.14).  Then the teacher and the students say 
the target words/word groups and act them out together at the same time. Then the teacher says the words/
word groups and acts them out. These activities can be done through the actions for the sub-themes  (D2.3, 
D2.5, V3.3, V4.5, V14.3, V16.3, V19.1, V19.2,LS5, LS6 ). As a variation, they can also repeat the words after 
the teacher happily, sadly, angrily, etc. using different tones of voice  (SELS2.3, CS2.8, CS2.11).  They also 
practise for the target social language chunks using the same or similar techniques. During the repetitions, 
they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom  (CS2.12).  
Some action sequences are also created in which the students can practise the social language in a fun way 
by repeating, pointing, miming, and acting out in several games  (SELS2.1, V7.2, LS5, LS6, LS9). The teacher 
facilitates some activities with dialogues and games in which students can practice the target pronunciation 
by selecting and using them accurately, naturally, and authentically  (CS3.1).  Several fun pronunciation 
games could be played, such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, 
rhyming games, and several sound drills  (SELS2.2).  The target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and 
diphthongs of the theme are practised through them  (CS2.13).  Their learning is evaluated as described in 
items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (D1.2, D1.6, 
D2.5, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4).  
ENG5.1.R1
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS: The teacher facilitates reading and writing 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise 
techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the 

===== PDF_PAGE_422 =====
422
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
theme in various forms and amounts. Reading is done in two ways in the theme by using the written version 
of the introductory digital story and additional reading texts in reading sections of the instructional material 
to be used  (V3.2, LS2, LS4) .  Various reading styles including silent reading, speed reading, jigsaw reading 
and basic reading techniques including skimming, scanning, and reading for details during pre-reading, 
while-reading and post-reading phases are used in the theme  (V3.4, LS1, CS2.3, CS2.6) . The ultimate aim 
of reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills and 
critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend and talk/write about the content in a meaningful and 
communicative way  (V3.3, V7.2, LS5, CS3.3). For the initial stage of reading, the teacher asks the students 
to look at the audio/visual/written elements  (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) 
surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory story or a new text in the reading section of 
the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the conceptual meanings they already have about 
the theme  (CS2.8).  At this stage, the teacher could ask the students to read the title of the theme and ask 
the students which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title  (SELS1.1, 
CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new words or the words they do not know. 
She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity by using the words they know and that there is time 
to work on the new words of the new theme later  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, CS2.10, CS2.12). 
ENG5.1.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING : Students go on with a scanning activity to find 
out the most important details of the introductory digital story and/or a new text in the reading section which 
is organised to help students to know more about the reading content  (CS2.6, CS2.7).  In this way they could 
be able to recognise the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or 
tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned  (quickly read) in the story  (CS2.4).  By doing so, they 
will be able to understand the story/text in general using the main elements  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, V3.4, LS1). 
ENG5.1.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Then the teacher asks the students to do a jigsaw reading activity, 
so she/he shows the written version of the introductory digital story or the text in the reading section on the 
blackboard/Smart Board  (or in any other teaching material).  She/He asks the students to work in pairs to 
share the text  (SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the text and the second peer reads the other half 
of the text in a given time  (CS2.6).  They are then asked to share what they have understood from their part 
with their peer, also in a given time. In this way, they talk about the whole story after reading it silently, in the 
jigsaw reading style  (D2.4, D3.6, V3.4, V4.2, V16.2, LS1, LS6,CS2.8, CS2.9) .  Some speed-reading activities 
can be used to develop students’ reading and comprehension skills. These activities can be evaluated as 
explained in the item  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After 
sharing their parts, students proceed with the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical 
chunks, and semantic meaning relatively with the help of the teacher  (CS2.14).  For dealing with the semantic 
meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, 
open- ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1).  From display to communicative open-ended, various 
types of questions are used to understand the meaning of the text  (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, CS2.6).  During this 
process students work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings  (D3.2, D3.7, V3.3, 
V7.2, V20.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 
ENG5.1.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process  (SELS1.3).  Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design  (D 2.3, D3.5, V4.2, V6.2, 
V10.3, V12.1, LS1, LS6). 

===== PDF_PAGE_423 =====
423
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.1.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY : At this stage, students remember what the 
theme is about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/ 
watching, and pre-reading sessions  (SELS1.1).  As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal with the 
main components and target vocabulary of the theme  (V3.2, LS1). 
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY : A scanning activity to find out the main details of the 
introductory digital story  (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help students to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some important pictures, words or events about the main components 
of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen 
and scanned  (quickly read) in the story. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general 
by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items  (D3.2, D3.6, LS1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7)Then the students read the written version of the digital story again silently,  
(or the reading text in the reading section), to check whether they know any of the target vocabulary items 
about the theme  (V16.3, CS2.8). They underline the words whose meaning they do not know while reading 
silently  (CS2.17).  Students say these words when they finish reading and the teacher writes these words 
on the Smart Board/blackboard/ white board as they say them. The teacher writes only the target words on 
the Smart Board/blackboard as active words that the students have said. She/He quickly deals with the non-
target passive vocabulary items by using pictures, mimics, gestures, imitations, examples, etc. But she/he 
takes time to facilitate the teaching of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.2, V3.3, V3.4, LS2, LS4,CS2.4, CS2.5, 
CS2.7). 
To introduce and practise the meanings of the target vocabulary related to the theme, that the students do 
not know, the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story  (or the video of the reading 
text if there is one) again. From the beginning, whenever a target item is mentioned, the teacher stops the 
video and asks several questions in the form of two options, one of which is a word from the previous themes 
that they already know  (V4.5, V14.3, V19.1, V19.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.16.1,CS2.6). By guessing what they are, 
the students hear the English equivalents of the words for the theme and they answer as a whole class in 
chorus. In this way, they are introduced to the meanings of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.7, CS2.10).  This 
is conducted in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (SELS2.1)  
(7),  (8), and  (9) in the section1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.   (V3.3, V3.4, 
V16.3, LS1, LS2, LS4).  After having watched the introductory digital story, the teacher shows some pictures 
for the sub-themes, on the walls as clues and says the words aloud several times in sentences by pointing to 
the pictures and the students repeat after her/him  (D2.3, V4.5,V14.3, V19.1, V19.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.6, CS2.11).  
In this way, the main vocabulary items of the theme are introduced to the students in English as described in 
item  (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY : The teacher can prepare an activity using the Web 2.0 
programme with images/pictures, and symbolic images for some categories about the components of 
the theme ’’school life ‘’. She/He also prepares mixed images/pictures for target vocabulary items for the 
activities which can be done in relation to the components. She/He asks the students to look at the mixed 
pile of images/pictures of the main components of the theme on the Smart Board screen and scan them 
for a while to remember them  (V4.5, V14.3, V16.3, V19.1, V19.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.4). She/He explains to the 
students that the items will be placed under the correct category, but first she/he gives the students the 
cut-out pictures of the activities and a large sheet of paper with the categories written on it and the cut-
out pictures will be placed under each category correctly   (V3.3, L2, LS4, CS2.5) . The teacher asks them 
to work in pairs and place the cut-out pictures in the right category and ask each other some questions 
about the theme  (D3.2, D3.8, SELS2.2, V4.5, V14.3, V16.3, V19.1, V19.2, LS5,LS6 ).  When the students have 
finished working with the cut-out pictures and asking and answering questions about them, the teacher 
asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures 

===== PDF_PAGE_424 =====
424
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
under the right category on the screen  (SELS1.2, V3.4, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures 
that are relevant to the main concept and its components are consolidated through categorisation. This 
activity can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. The 
teacher asks the students to copy the words next to the pictures they have pasted or drawn in their picture 
dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with their peers and check each 
other’s spelling  (D3.2, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS9). To consolidate the meaning, selection, 
and use of the new target vocabulary items, the teacher could organise activities and tasks using pictures, 
flashcards, sounds, realia, and any other materials to play games such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, 
Odd One out, Wordscapes, Scrabble, Pictionary, Letter Scramble, Acronyms, Charades etc. Games could be 
adapted according to the teacher’s objectives  (pronunciation, spelling, meaning, selection, use etc.), age, 
interests and language level of the students  (CS2.13).  Students can be asked to create their own games 
to use the target vocabulary items in context  (D2.5, D.3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V4.2, V4.4, V4.5, V7.2, V14.3, 
V16.3, V19.1,V19.2, LS5, LS6, LS9, CS2.20).  Students’ learning can be checked as described in items  (3), and  
(4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG5.1.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS : To draw the students’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme’’school life ‘’, the introductory digital story or an extract from it played so that the 
students can notice the target language chunks  (D3.2, CS2.2).  While watching the introductory digital story, 
the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by 
showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the students to do the same  (V3.2, LS2, CS2.14). She could 
hold up large pictures corresponding to the chunks when they are mentioned in the digital story to draw the 
students’ attention. The sentences with the target chunks are also written and placed on the Smart Board/
blackboard/ whiteboard. The teacher also points to these sentences while pointing to the scenes in the story 
where they appear. There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Students can 
automatically and naturally identify the use of the target language chunks in the current context created in 
the introductory digital story without working on any rules or structures  (SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, 
CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  To check the students’ identification of the target language chunks, after the students 
have finished watching the introductory digital story, the teacher asks them to read the sentences with the 
target language chunks written by the teacher on the Smart Board /blackboard/whiteboard and asks them 
to find the same or similar sentences in the written version of the introductory digital story or another text 
that is shown on the Smart Board  (D3.2, SELS3.2, V3.3). She/He also asks them to find the same or similar 
sentences with these chunks which are given in different types of tables prepared by the teacher  (CS2.7).  
These tables do not include any explanations of grammatical rules, explanations, or formulas, and they only 
contain example sentences with target chunks in which important words with the target grammar are written 
in bold or different colours to attract students’ attention. The teacher asks them to look at the words in bold 
or in different colours and asks students to examine them  (CS2.9).  Then the teacher asks the students 
to copy these sentences with target chunks written in bold or different colours into their notebooks. The 
teacher asks the students to make very similar sentences using the target words and asks them to share their 
sentences with each other in pairs, and then with the class   (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, D3.2, V4.2, CS2.13,CS2.14, 
CS2.16.1, CS2.16.2)Both the teacher and the class members give feedback to the students as they say their 
sentences  (CS2.19).  The teacher gives all students a checklist with simple symbols to evaluate each other’s 
work as explained in the items  (5) and  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.  (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, LS6). 
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate students’ further practice with the target 
language chunks in the theme ’’school life ‘’, the teacher shows some other sentences with these chunks 
in another context such as a short story, a short paragraph, and a short dialogue etc. and asks students to 
find the sentences with the target chunks in them and asks if they understand them  (SELS3.2, V3.3, V4.5, 
V14.3,V16.3, V19.1, V19.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.8).  She/He gives some written activities and exercises 

===== PDF_PAGE_425 =====
425
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
to practise the target chunks in context. She/He also facilitates more fun activities and as described in 
items  (5),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. To 
consolidate the target language chunks, the teacher organises different fun activity and game bundles that 
the students can practise and consolidate them  (CS2.13) where their learning can be checked as described 
in item  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (D2.5, V4.4). 
ENG5.1.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION : Practising through writing: Writing activities 
help students  to  produce  and  display  meaningful  written  language  for  their  personal  expression  and 
communication with others, by using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and 
the social language in this theme, as in other themes.  (V3.2, V4.5, V14.3, V16.3, V19.1, V19.2,LS5, LS6). 
ENG5.1.W2.
RECOGNISING THE MODEL:  Initially, students produce very limited and short pieces of writing such as 
sentences to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme ’’school life ‘’. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat or simply explain what they hear and 
see in context and what they are asked to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy to be able 
to notice significant points and elements in it  (SELS3.1).  While copying a short model writing, they become 
aware of the aspects such as the use of words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on  (D3.1, 
V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). 
ENG5.1.W3.
CREATING THE WRITING CONTENT: Controlled writing of words and sentences turns to short paragraphs in 
a process writing manner with the support of the teacher’s feedback in the theme. This process is expanded 
and supported by several practical activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/ 
pantomime/video stories, dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, 
etc. to practise further by writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (D1.3, D3.1, SELS3.2,V3.4, V4.4, V7.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG5.1.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
projects, scripts for plays, diaries/journals, blogs, very short film scenarios, etc. to express their ideas, 
thoughts, and feelings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be contextual, practical, 
authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests and language level.   (V3.4, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, 
LS9). 
ENG5.1.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students  interact  and  communicate 
with peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme in their writing  (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V4.5, 
V14.3,V16.3, V19.1, V19.2, LS5, LS6, LS9, CS2.20). AI- based technologies can be used for various activities, 
giving students access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school 
and at home in a variety of ways  (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3,V7.2, LS2, CS2.20)These activities are evaluated 
as described in items  (11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles  for  the  Implementation  of  the  English  
Curriculum.

===== PDF_PAGE_426 =====
426
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.1.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (D1.5, SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design.   (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, 
V20.4, LS1, LS6). 
ENG5.1.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING: The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from the 
first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance students’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language expressions of the theme .   (V3.2, 
V3.4, V4.5, V14.3, V16.3, V19.1, V19.2, LS5, LS6). 
ENG5.1.S2.
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL: In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, students 
recognise how the language with the target language items is used  (CS2.6).  They practise the language in a 
controlled way, by telling, repeating, explaining what they hear and see in the context  (D1.3, D3.2, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.4). 
ENG5.1.S3.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT : In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues etc. as new opportunities for the students to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc  (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13). 
ENG5.1.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact with peers 
and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
grammar in use, and the social language for the theme  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V4.5,V14.3, V16.3, V19.1, 
V19.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.20) . AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access 
to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings  (D1.2, D1.6,  D3.3, V7.2,LS2, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG5.1.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Students communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related 
to the theme ‘’school life ‘’ in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.3, CS2.20).  Picture strip 
stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision  (V3.4, V4.2, V12.1, 
LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and 
appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. Storification and gamification techniques are 
actively and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme. Students 
are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, 
speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people in 

===== PDF_PAGE_427 =====
427
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar in use, and the 
social language for the theme and its components such as “people, places and rules at school; school clubs; 
countries; national days and celebrations”  (V3.4,V4.2, V4.5, V14.3, V16.3, V19.1, V19.2, LS4, LS5, LS6, CS3.1, 
CS2.20).  AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings   
(D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.3, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items  (7),  (8),  (9), and  (10) 
in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can expand their 
language use and practise by communicating with others.
ENG5.1.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole speaking-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different activities for 
creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design.  (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, LS1, LS6).
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To talk about social clubs, rules at school in English by the target language items.
Activity 1: Role-Play
The teacher gives each student a role card (“You are a drama club member who loves acting but doesn’t like 
strict rules”). Groups pretend to meet at a “School Clubs Fair”.  Each student must introduce their club, talk 
about what they like or dislike, discuss the rules of their club. The teacher encourages them to explain why 
they like/dislike something or suggest new rules for their club. Students ask questions to each other about 
their likes/dislikes. The teacher tells students to exchange reflection sheets or give verbal feedback in pairs. 
They use sentence starters (“I like how you ___”, “You are good at ___”, “Next time, you can try ___”). For self-
reflection activity students write answers to prompts like: “I can ask/answer questions about ___”, “I learned 
that ___”, “I’m good at ___”.  Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To talk about social clubs, rules at school in English by using the target language items.
Activity: Role-Play
The teacher gives each student a role card (“You are a drama club member who loves acting but doesn’t like 
strict rules”). Groups pretend to meet at a “School Clubs Fair”. Each student must introduce their club, talk 
about what they like or dislike, and discuss the rules of their club. The teacher provides sentence starters 
and word banks (“I like/don’t like ___ because ___”).
After the teacher provides an example dialogue, students ask questions to each other about their likes/
dislikes. The teacher tells students to exchange reflection sheets or give verbal feedback in pairs. They use 
sentence starters (“I like how you ___”, “You are good at ___”, “Next time, you can try ___”). For self-reflection 
activity students write answers to prompts like: “I can ask/answer questions about ___”, “I learned that ___”, 
“I’m good at ___”. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_428 =====
428
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 2: CLASSROOM LIFE
Sub-themes: Classroom rules and language; school 
subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days of the 
week; time
This theme is centred on the concept of “classroom life” and covers the 
sub-themes of “classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; 
classroom objects; days of the week; time”. These components (sub-themes) 
are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised use of 
target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and social 
language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed to 
be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within 
and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1 Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2 Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, 
V10. Modesty, V12. Patience, V16. Responsibility, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_429 =====
429
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Physical Education and Sports, Visual Arts, 
Music, Information Technologies and Software
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information 
Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. 
Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based 
Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring 
Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. 
Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. 
Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing 
Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical 
Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_430 =====
430
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 5 is structured based on semi-holistic/semi-inductive approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.5.2.L1.  Students can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “classroom life with classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; 
classroom objects; days of the week; time” carefully.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience related to the current theme 
and content by recalling their background knowledge imaginatively in her/his own language 
without speaking it.
b) Students identify significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge and 
experiences and the clues to the current content without translation.
c) Students make predictions about the current content on “classroom life” by using the 
relationships that they recognised accurately by looking at the provided realia, pictures, and 
context.
d) Students make predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/visual 
elements in relation to the current theme.
ENG.5.2.L2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “classroom life with classroom 
rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days of the week; time” 
together through significant details and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Students comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole.
b) Students recognise the significant details and components within the whole current content 
by listening (to) and watching it again in a careful manner.
ENG.5.2.L3.  Students can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “classroom life 
with classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days of 
the week; time” through significant details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Students check any initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals surrounding the current 
content.
b) Students make important and necessary classifications in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
c) Students make important and necessary comparisons in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content with the help of classifications and comparisons made 
earlier.
e) Students make significant inferences that contribute to the understanding of the meaning of 
the generally perceived current content.
f) Students construct the meaning of the current content in detail through the classifications/
comparisons/inferences made earlier in relation to it.
g) Students internalise the current content in an individualised and appropriate way according to 
age and language level.
ENG.5.2.L4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully 
about the whole listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content 
on “classroom life with classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom 
objects; days of the week; time”.

===== PDF_PAGE_431 =====
431
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content.
b) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content by sharing them with others.
ENG.5.2.P1.  Students can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“classroom life with classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom 
objects; days of the week; time” accurately, authentically, and naturally through spontaneous 
decision-making processes and use it in an appropriate and effective way when communicating 
with others.
a) Listening to the current content by paying attention to the target phonological aspects 
including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Students reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source 
several times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Students recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts.
d) Students recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they 
are heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Students use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.5.2.R1.  Students can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“classroom life with classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom 
objects; days of the week; time”. 
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content efficiently.
b) Students recognise significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Students make significant preliminary predictions about the current content based on 
recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring the audio-visual 
clues surrounding it.
ENG.5.2.R2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “classroom life with classroom 
rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days of the week; time” 
through skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading the content very 
quickly.
a) Students review the current content by looking at the surrounding audio/visual materials to 
identify what it is about in general through skimming.
b) Students read the current content to scan the major components silently and quickly with the 
help of the clues provided. 
c) Students carefully read the current content silently and carefully to find significant details and 
components belonging to the theme.
ENG.5.2.R3.  Students can make meaning of / derive meaning from the current content about “classroom 
life with classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days 
of the week; time” by reading it carefully.

===== PDF_PAGE_432 =====
432
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students carefully check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial and detailed 
predictions that are made earlier. 
b) Students classify the significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
c) Students compare significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships within the current 
content that contribute to the perception of the content in a meaningful way.
e) Students make meaningful inferences from the information in the current content by examining 
it carefully.
f) Students internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to age and language level.
ENG.5.2.R4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “classroom life with classroom 
rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days of the week; time” 
in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have 
been carefully examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process.
b) Students convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been carefully 
examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing 
them with others.
c) Students produce new products related to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities. 
ENG.5.2.V1.  Students can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “classroom life 
with classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days of 
the week; time” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately 
and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Students guess the main topic of the current content from the audio/visual/written elements 
(e.g. sound, voices, scenes, written words) in the contextual material by listening (to)/watching/
reading it several times for recognition.
b) Students recognise sub-themes/key components of the target words to which they belong in 
the current content by scanning.
c) Students recognise the target words related to the main components of the current content 
with the help of the audio/visual/written elements and other clues.
d) Repeating aloud the relevant target key components and target vocabulary in the current 
content with the whole class, in groups, and then individually together with or after listening 
(to)/watching/reading the source material.
e) Students recognise the use of target words and expressions in the current content by making 
various guesses with the help of supplementary elements.
f) Students make context-appropriate selections automatically by associating target words 
with their pre-existing conceptual meanings in the mind without analysing their contextual 
meaning in detail. 
g) Students use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts by being aware of their differences when communicating with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_433 =====
433
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.5.2.G1.  Students can select and use the target grammatical elements of the current content about 
“classroom life with classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom 
objects; days of the week; time” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and 
use it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Being familiar with the current content by listening (to)/watching/reading it a few times 
attentively.
b) Students listen (to)/watch/read the same content, attentively and mindfully, including the use 
of target grammatical chunks presented verbally in context with the help of body language.
c) Students verbally and automatically repeat simple and meaningful clauses/sentences 
containing target grammatical chunks that they have noticed in the current content that they 
have heard/viewed/read without explicit knowledge of the rules.
d) Students act out physically the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks 
in the current content heard/viewed/read by repeating them several times without knowing, 
analysing, and thinking about their rules.
e) Students see and read the example sentences containing target grammatical chunks provided 
for language awareness carefully.
f) Students gain awareness of clauses/sentences that contain target grammatical chunks that 
are presented for the purpose of raising language awareness.
g) Students recognise the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks when 
they encounter them by seeing and/or hearing them in different contexts.
h) Students use the recognised target grammatical chunks naturally, authentically, and 
automatically in new contextual tasks and activities without analysing their rules.
i) Students produce new and meaningful verbal/written content about the current theme by 
using the target grammatical chunks in meaningful tasks without knowing and analysing their 
rules.
j) Students use the target language chunks authentically, automatically, and naturally in 
communication processes without analysing their rules in meaningful contexts.
ENG.5.2.W1.  Students can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on 
“classroom life with classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom 
objects; days of the week; time”.
a) Students relate their pre-existing knowledge and experience used in the initial processes of 
writing-expression skills to the current content by activating them in relation with the current 
content.
b) Students understand what the writing task and its content are in relation to the current 
content correctly by making use of their pre-existing knowledge and experience as guided and 
assigned.
ENG.5.2.W2.  Students can understand the model/example for the writing task about the current content 
on “classroom life with classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom 
objects; days of the week; time”.
a) Students understand the components and details of the content in the provided model/
sample which is displayed as a guide, by examining it carefully.
ENG.5.2.W3.  Students can organise a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“classroom life with classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom 
objects; days of the week; time” based on the model/example provided.
a) Students conduct preliminary research for a prepared writing situation according to the 
current content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_434 =====
434
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students develop a simple draft for a prepared/or unprepared writing task about the current 
content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
c) Students organise and/or produce materials relevant to the content for a prepared/
unprepared writing task, appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level. 
ENG.5.2.W4.  Students can individually construct/form content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “classroom life with classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; 
classroom objects; days of the week; time”.
a) Students present appropriate and accurate materials for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task about the current theme according to the assigned writing type, age, and language 
level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and rules relevant to the assigned writing 
type for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language chunks accurately and appropriately 
for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task about the current content by selecting them 
according to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
d) Students express important messages in the written current content to the reader accurately 
and appropriately for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
ENG.5.2.W5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information in the new written tasks about the 
“classroom life with classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom 
objects; days of the week; time” to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information in the current content or similar information in a different content 
by internalising and selecting it individually and reorganising it as required and meaningfully in 
different contexts.
b) Students exchange information/ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge meaningfully with others.
ENG.5.2.W6.  Students can reflect on their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “classroom life with classroom rules 
and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days of the week; time” in 
relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in 
relation to the current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in relation to the 
writing-expression process about the current content with others.
c) Students produce new written products related to the current writing-expression content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities.
ENG.5.2.S1.  Students can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on 
“classroom life with classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom 
objects; days of the week; time”.
a) Students make connections with the current content by activating their pre-existing 
knowledge and experiences that they have recalled in the listening (to)/watching/reading 
sections previously.
ENG.5.2.S2.  Students can use the model/example for producing verbal content about the current content 
on “classroom life with classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom 
objects; days of the week; time”.
a) Students listen (to)/watch/read the model/example for the current content with the help of 
audio/visual/written elements.

===== PDF_PAGE_435 =====
435
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.5.2.S3.  Students can organise a new verbal content on “classroom life with classroom rules and 
language; school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days of the week; time” by 
speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students recognise what form and type of content is expected and assigned for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations based on audio/visual/written content as provided in the 
model/example.
b) Students organise the content for prepared/unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate 
and accurate way as they have heard/seen/read in the model/example.
c) Students develop a draft for prepared/unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the 
age and language level as presented in the model/sample content.
d) Students organise supplementary audio/visual/written materials for prepared/or unprepared 
speaking situations, appropriate to age and language level, as provided in the model/sample 
content.
e) Students organise the information about the current content to be presented for prepared/or 
unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate way as required.
ENG.5.2.S4.  Students can construct a new verbal content on “classroom life with classroom rules 
and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days of the week; time” by 
speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students use target pronunciation, vocabulary, language chunks, and forms of discourse 
related to the current content effectively by selecting them accurately and appropriately for 
prepared/unprepared speaking situations.
b) Students present individually prepared content in an accurate and efficient way as presented 
in the model/example for prepared speaking situations clearly, efficiently, and appropriately.
c) Students present individually prepared information in an accurate and efficient way as 
presented in the model/example for unprepared speaking situations.
d) Students express the message about the current content clearly to the reader by using all 
supplementary elements and body language in an appropriate and accurate way in context for 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.5.2.S5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information about the “classroom life with 
classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days of the 
week; time” to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information presented in the current content by reorganising it appropriately, 
efficiently, individually, and verbally in different contexts.
b) Students engage in appropriate and efficient verbal communication by sharing the 
reconstructed meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.5.2.S6.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
speaking-expression process about the current content, “classroom life with classroom rules 
and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days of the week; time” to 
communicate with other people in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or 
with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully in 
relation to the speaking-expression process about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_436 =====
436
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
CLASSROOM LIFE: 
Sub-Themes: Classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days of the 
week; time
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for classroom rules and language: Nouns: Rubbish (trash-garbage-AmE), attention, (no) running. 
Adjectives: Careful. Verbs: To shout, to smile, to raise a hand, to follow, to borrow, to lend, to tidy (up), to 
leave, to forget, to bring, to hang (your coat), to hold on. Adverbs: Quietly, loudly, carefully, slowly.
Vocabulary for school subjects: Maths, Turkish, Science, Social Studies, Foreign Language, English, Religion 
and Morals, Art, Music, P.E. (Physical Education), IT (Information Technology), Drama.
Vocabulary for timetables: Nouns: A timetable, a day, a week, a weekday, a weekend, morning, afternoon, 
noon, a break, lunch, double lessons. Verbs: To start, to finish. 
Vocabulary for classroom objects:  Nouns: A rubbish bin (a trash/garbage can -AmE), a (smart)board, a 
poster, a seat, a bookshelf, a rubber (an eraser-AmE), a dictionary, a board marker, a pencil case, a (school) 
material, a sheet, a notebook (exercise book-AmE), a desk.
Vocabulary for days of the week: Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday.
Vocabulary for time: Half past, to, past, o’clock, quarter, a minute.
Vocabulary for numbers 50-100: From 50 to 100.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Simple Present Tense: (We have got an Art class every Wednesday.)
-There is/are: (There is a new student in the class. There are fifty students in my class.)
-Object Pronouns: Me, you, him, her, us, you, them (Can you give me your eraser?)
-“To Be” for Time (What time is it?): (What time is it? It is half past four.)
-Wh questions (What time..?): (What time does the English class start?)
Functions of the Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of the Simple Present Tense: Describing the responsibilities of different roles in the classroom and 
daily routines and study routines in a classroom.
-Use of “There is/There are”: Expressing the presence of something or somebody.
-Use of Object Pronouns: Replacing nouns that receive the action in a sentence.
-Use of “To Be” for time (What time is it?): Telling the time.
-Use of “Wh- questions” (What time..?): Asking about time of actions.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations:  “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”. 
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and  Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage  will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table of contents for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum. 

===== PDF_PAGE_437 =====
437
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Target Social Language in Use: 
Make the grade if you want to join the Sports Club! 
Don’t skip the lesson! (Please don’t cut the class!)
Give me a hand for this homework!
I don’t feel all right.
I’d love to.
Target Phonological Sounds in Use: 
Intonation of negative statements.
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “classroom life” and its components such as “classroom rules and language; 
school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days of the week; time” is present in almost all languages. 
People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to 
their new language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what “classroom life” 
and its components such as “classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; 
days of the week; time” means but will not know how to say them in another language if this has not yet been 
covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them 
recognise, understand, and learn the new information more easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts:
classroom, classroom rules,  classroom language, school subjects, timetables, classroom objects,  days of 
the week,  time
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: The students will create a dream classroom. First, they will decide the 
schedule for their classroom, classroom rules, and subjects. Then, they will prepare a poster about these 
dream classes that include the lesson schedule and classroom rules. The posters may include photos, 
pictures or drawings. Finally, they will present their dream classes. The assignment will be evaluated by 
using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “classroom life” and its components such as “classroom 
rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days of the week; time”. As they are 
lower secondary school students in year 5 (five), they can know what “classroom life” and its components 
such as “classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days of the week; 
time” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people who start to learn a new language bring 
their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and transfer it to their new language learning 
context. However, they may not know how to say these things in a foreign language if this has not yet been 
covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own language can help 
them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a foreign language, in this case English. As they 
are students in year 5 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “classroom 
life” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or years. These grammar 
items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning of the year, and they can 
be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current theme, so that the 
new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “classroom life” and its components such as “classroom rules and language; school 

===== PDF_PAGE_438 =====
438
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days of the week; time”. Recalling and practising with relevant 
vocabulary and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as a 
basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “classroom life”. Therefore, a dialogue 
game can be played to revise all vocabulary and language chunks from the previous themes in previous years 
by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by 
seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to understand and use the previously learnt 
vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise 
or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the 
current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students can recall the current (theme) concept of “classroom life” and its components such as “classroom 
rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; days of the week; time” by remembering 
their pre-existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to 
make links with the current activities in the current theme in English without translating anything until they 
start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
various materials such as short scene from a film, series, a part from a story, a poster etc. which is appropriate 
to the age, level, and pedagogy could be used before the main teaching/learning flow of the class begins. 
They would give a general idea of the theme. Students are facilitated with the relevant materials through 
various activities.  When they have finished working on it, the teacher asks them in English if they understood 
what was it about. For checking their understanding, she can design several activities. For instance, they can 
write a related word that they know in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways can be tried.
The teacher asks them to wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the digital introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any 
further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme ‘“classroom life”in the classroom, to prepare the students emotionally, 
cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker 
to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This 
could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing 
a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote/a very short story, watching a 
pantomime/cartoon story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require 
any knowledge of English  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4). 
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills  (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around ‘“classroom life”and sub-themes  sub-themes of “classroom rules 
and language; school subjects; timetables;
classroom objects; days of the week; time”. , allowing students to build background knowledge through 
receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a 
meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although 
they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in 
a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development 
and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a balanced integration of all the 
skills, where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) 
and respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their vocabulary, 
grammar and phonological selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_439 =====
439
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.2.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: Having seen a visual about and having guessed 
the topic of ‘’classroom life” during the background recall session, students can have a vision of the current 
theme as a general concept in the current  (new) theme  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, V4.5, V14.3, V19.1, V19.2,LS1, 
LS4, LS5, LS6, CS2.11, CS2.16.2).  So, a further concept check with listening/watching for gist activities 
including more guessing games using clues from some pictures, realia, short video clips etc. help them 
prepare for the current theme  (CS2.6, CS2.8).  For each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as 
the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through the theme to cover target 
pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole 
theme  (CS2.14).  It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. The 
teacher asks them whether their guesses during the background recall session were correct and also what 
they think the introductory digital story that they are going to watch could be about  (CS2.8).  As they have 
already seen a scene from a film about the theme and the pictures, realia, etc. they can easily answer what 
the current theme will be about and that their guesses were true  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2,SELS1.2, V3.3, V3.4, 
V16.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17). 
ENG5.2.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING: The teacher asks the students to 
watch the introductory digital story carefully, recalling the work done with visuals  (the scene from a film, 
pictures, realia, or video clips about the theme shown earlier)   (CS2.11 ).  Students watch the introductory 
digital story to consolidate the identification of the theme’’school life ‘’ in it as a whole  (CS2.13)  without 
stopping the video at any point, so that the students can understand the theme holistically  (D3.2, SELS1.1, 
V3.3, V3.4, V4.5, V14.3, V16.3, V19.1, V19.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, LS6,CS2.14, CS2.16.2). 
ENG5.2.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw students’ attention to the 
content, some realia brought into the classroom by the teacher could be used  (V4.5, V14.3, V16.3, V19.1, 
V19.2, LS5, LS6).  The teacher could show the corresponding objects to the students when the corresponding 
vocabulary for the main components of the theme ‘’classroom life” is mentioned in the introductory digital 
story, without stopping the video while the students watch the story  (CS2.6 ).  When they have watched 
the whole story, the teacher could show the realia items on the table and ask questions with two options  
(CS2.5).  As one of the words is from the previous themes, students could hear, understand, recognise and 
learn the  (new) target vocabulary for each main component of the theme easily  (CS2.1).  In this way, the 
teacher could engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the components 
of the theme, and that they have understood each realia item is about one component  (CS2.8).  Further 
activities and games can be played at this stage to reinforce the general meaning of the theme through its 
main components  (D1.1, D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4). 
To check whether the students understand the general topic of the theme ‘’classroom life” and remember 
the sequence of the scenes of the introductory digital story, the teacher shows an organiser with the mixed 
images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the students to look at the images/pictures 
of the scenes for a while  (CS2.3).  She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs in their seats with 
the mixed paper pictures she/he has already given to the students  (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS4, LS6 ). 
When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for the scenes of the story, the teacher asks the students 
to take turns or volunteer to sort the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board  (or the pictures on the 
blackboard)  (SELS1.2, CS2.6, CS2.10) .  This will help the students to organise the story as a whole so that 
they can identify the main theme and the components of the theme from their memories   (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, 
V16.3, V20.4, CS2.12). 

===== PDF_PAGE_440 =====
440
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.2.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/ W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process   (SELS1.3, V3.4) . Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  ( CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3,V12.1, 
LS5, LS6).  The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design  (V10.3). 
ENG5.2.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION : To practise pronunciation of the new target words, word 
groups, language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme ‘’classroom life” and the words 
and/or word groups for sub-themes  sub-themes of “classroom rules and language; school subjects; 
timetables;classroom objects; days of the week; time” the teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch 
the whole or some extracts from the introductory digital story by noticing how words are pronounced  (V3.3, 
V16.1, V16.3, LS4,CS2.6). She/He asks them to repeat the word aloud when she/he stops the video for a 
word and says it. The teacher then asks the students to listen and repeat the same words aloud a few times 
as a whole class after listening to the recordings that she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 
programmes  (LS2, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as showing the 
picture of the target word to the students to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when 
they hear the word from the recording, and then both  (CS2.8).  To help the students pronounce the words 
accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/
him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers  (D3.2, D3.6, 
SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, CS2.14). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Practice of pronunciation could be done with different 
forms of TPR, gamification and drama activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words/word groups for 
sub-themes sub-themes of “classroom rules and language; school subjects; timetables; classroom objects; 
days of the week; time” , the students listen  (CS2.9); then the teacher says the target words/word groups 
and acts them out, the students repeat after her/him  (SELS2.1, CS2.14).  Then the teacher and the students 
say the target words/word groups and act them out together at the same time. Then the teacher says the 
words/word groups and acts them out. These activities can be done through the actions for the sub-themes   
(D2.3, D2.5, V3.3, V16.1,V16.3) . As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, 
sadly, angrily, etc. using different tones of voice  (SELS2.3, CS2.8, CS2.11).  They also practise for the target 
social language chunks using the same or similar techniques. During the repetitions, they point to relevant 
pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom  (CS2.12).  Some action sequences 
are also created in which the students can practise the social language in a fun way by repeating, pointing, 
miming, and acting out in several games  (SELS2.1, V7.2,  LS9). The teacher facilitates some activities with 
dialogues and games in which students can practice the target pronunciation by selecting and using them 
accurately, naturally, and authentically  (CS3.1).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such 
as shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several 
sound drills  (SELS2.2).  The target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are 
practised through them  (CS2.13).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.5, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4).  
ENG5.2.R1
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS: The teacher facilitates reading and writing 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise 
techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the 

===== PDF_PAGE_441 =====
441
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
theme in various forms and amounts. Reading is done in two ways in the theme by using the written version 
of the introductory digital story and additional reading texts in reading sections of the instructional material 
to be used  (V3.2, LS2, LS4) .  Various reading styles including silent reading, speed reading, jigsaw reading 
and basic reading techniques including skimming, scanning, and reading for details during pre-reading, 
while-reading and post-reading phases are used in the theme  (V3.4, LS1, CS2.3, CS2.6) . The ultimate aim 
of reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills and 
critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend and talk/write about the content in a meaningful and 
communicative way  (V3.3, V7.2,CS3.3). For the initial stage of reading, the teacher asks the students to look 
at the audio/visual/written elements
 (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual 
introductory story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to 
recall the conceptual meanings they already have about the theme  (CS2.8).  At this stage, the teacher could 
ask the students to read the title of the theme and ask the students which words they already know, and 
which come to mind in connection with the title  (SELS1.1, CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask the 
meanings of any new words or the words they do not know. She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing 
activity by using the words they know and that there is time to work on the new words of the new theme later  
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, CS2.10, CS2.12). 
ENG5.2.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING : Students go on with a scanning activity to find 
out the most important details of the introductory digital story and/or a new text in the reading section which 
is organised to help students to know more about the reading content  (CS2.6, CS2.7).  In this way they could 
be able to recognise the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or 
tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned  (quickly read) in the story  (CS2.4).  By doing so, they 
will be able to understand the story/text in general using the main elements  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, V3.4, LS1). 
ENG5.2.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Then the teacher asks the students to do a jigsaw reading activity, 
so she/he shows the written version of the introductory digital story or the text in the reading section on the 
blackboard/Smart Board  (or in any other teaching material).  She/He asks the students to work in pairs to 
share the text  (SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the text and the second peer reads the other half 
of the text in a given time  (CS2.6).  They are then asked to share what they have understood from their part 
with their peer, also in a given time. In this way, they talk about the whole story after reading it silently, in the 
jigsaw reading style  (D2.4, D3.6, V3.4, V4.2, V16.2, LS1,CS2.8, CS2.9).  Some speed-reading activities can be 
used to develop students’ reading and comprehension skills. These activities can be evaluated as explained 
in the item  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After sharing 
their parts, students proceed with the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical chunks, 
and semantic meaning relatively with the help of the teacher  (CS2.14).  For dealing with the semantic 
meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, 
open- ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1).  From display to communicative open-ended, various 
types of questions are used to understand the meaning of the text  (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, CS2.6).  During this 
process students work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings  (D3.2, D3.7, V3.3, 
V7.2, V20.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 
ENG5.2.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process  (SELS1.3).  Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 

===== PDF_PAGE_442 =====
442
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design  (D 2.3, D3.5, V4.2, V6.2, 
V10.3, V12.1, LS1, LS6). 
ENG5.2.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY : At this stage, students remember what the 
theme is about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/ 
watching, and pre-reading sessions  (SELS1.1).  As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal with the 
main components and target vocabulary of the theme  (V3.2, LS1). 
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY : A scanning activity to find out the main details of the 
introductory digital story  (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help students to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some important pictures, words or events about the main components 
of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen 
and scanned  (quickly read) in the story. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general 
by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items  (D3.2, D3.6, LS1, LS2, 
LS4, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7) Then the students read the written version of the digital story again silently,  (or 
the reading text in the reading section), to check whether they know any of the target vocabulary items 
about the theme  (V16.1,V16.3, CS2.8) . They underline the words whose meaning they do not know while 
reading silently  (CS2.17).  Students say these words when they finish reading and the teacher writes these 
words on the Smart Board/blackboard/ white board as they say them. The teacher writes only the target 
words on the Smart Board/blackboard as active words that the students have said. She/He quickly deals 
with the non-target passive vocabulary items by using pictures, mimics, gestures, imitations, examples, 
etc. But she/he takes time to facilitate the teaching of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.2, V3.3, V3.4, LS2, 
LS4,CS2.4, CS2.5, CS2.7). 
To introduce and practise the meanings of the target vocabulary related to the theme  ‘’classroom life”, that 
the students do not know, the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story  (or the 
video of the reading text if there is one) again. From the beginning, whenever a target item is mentioned, 
the teacher stops the video and asks several questions in the form of two options, one of which is a word 
from the previous themes that they already know  (V16.1, V16.3, CS2.16.1, CS2.6).  By guessing what they are, 
the students hear the English equivalents of the words for the theme and they answer as a whole class in 
chorus. In this way, they are introduced to the meanings of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6,D3.7, CS2.10).  This 
is conducted in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (SELS2.1)  
(7),  (8), and  (9) in the section
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.   (V3.3, V3.4, V16.3, LS1, LS2, LS4).  After 
having watched the introductory digital story, the teacher shows some pictures for the sub-themes, on 
the walls as clues and says the words aloud several times in sentences by pointing to the pictures and the 
students repeat after her/him  (D2.3,V16.1, V16.3, CS2.6, CS2.11).  In this way, the main vocabulary items of 
the theme are introduced to the students in English as described in item  (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (V16.1, V16.3). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY : The teacher can prepare an activity using the Web 2.0 
programme with images/pictures, and symbolic images for some categories about the components of the 
theme ’’ classroom life” ,. She/He also prepares mixed images/pictures for target vocabulary items for the 
activities which can be done in relation to the components. She/He asks the students to look at the mixed 
pile of images/pictures of the main components of the theme on the Smart Board screen and scan them 
for a while to remember them  (V16.1, V16.3, CS2.4). She/He explains to the students that the items will be 
placed under the correct category, but first she/he gives the students the cut-out pictures of the activities 
and a large sheet of paper with the categories written on it and the cut-out pictures will be placed under 
each category correctly  (V3.3, L2, LS4, CS2.5) . The teacher asks them to work in pairs and place the cut-

===== PDF_PAGE_443 =====
443
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
out pictures in the right category and ask each other some questions about the theme  (D3.2, D3.8, SELS2.2, 
V16.1, V16.3). When the students have finished working with the cut-out pictures and asking and answering 
questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart Board and drag 
the corresponding images/pictures under the right category on the screen  (SELS1.2, V3.4, V20.4, LS1, 
LS4, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the main concept and its components are 
consolidated through categorisation. This activity can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard 
if there is a problem with technology. The teacher asks the students to copy the words next to the pictures 
they have pasted or drawn in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture 
dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling  (D3.2, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, 
LS9). To consolidate the meaning, selection, and use of the new target vocabulary items, the teacher could 
organise activities and tasks using pictures, flashcards, sounds, realia, and any other materials to play games 
such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, Wordscapes, Scrabble, Pictionary, Letter Scramble, 
Acronyms, Charades etc. Games could be adapted according to the teacher’s objectives  (pronunciation, 
spelling, meaning, selection, use etc.), age, interests and language level of the students  (CS2.13).  Students 
can be asked to create their own games to use the target vocabulary items in context  (D2.5, D.3.3, SELS3.1, 
SELS3.2, V4.2, V4.4, V7.2, V16.1, V16.3,  LS9, CS2.20).  Students’ learning can be checked as described in 
items  (3), and  (4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG5.2.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS : To draw the students’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme’’ classroom life”, the introductory digital story or an extract from it played so that the 
students can notice the target language chunks  (D3.2, CS2.2).  While watching the introductory digital story, 
the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by 
showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the students to do the same  (V3.2, LS2, CS2.14). She could 
hold up large pictures corresponding to the chunks when they are mentioned in the digital story to draw the 
students’ attention. The sentences with the target chunks are also written and placed on the Smart Board/
blackboard/ whiteboard. The teacher also points to these sentences while pointing to the scenes in the story 
where they appear. There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Students can 
automatically and naturally identify the use of the target language chunks in the current context created in 
the introductory digital story without working on any rules or structures  (SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, 
CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  To check the students’ identification of the target language chunks, after the students 
have finished watching the introductory digital story, the teacher asks them to read the sentences with the 
target language chunks written by the teacher on the Smart Board /blackboard/whiteboard and asks them 
to find the same or similar sentences in the written version of the introductory digital story or another text 
that is shown on the Smart Board  (D3.2, SELS3.2, V3.3). She/He also asks them to find the same or similar 
sentences with these chunks which are given in different types of tables prepared by the teacher  (CS2.7).  
These tables do not include any explanations of grammatical rules, explanations, or formulas, and they only 
contain example sentences with target chunks in which important words with the target grammar are written 
in bold or different colours to attract students’ attention. The teacher asks them to look at the words in bold 
or in different colours  and asks students to examine them  (CS2.9).  Then the teacher asks the students 
to copy these sentences with target chunks written in bold or different colours into their notebooks. The 
teacher asks the students to make very similar sentences using the target words and asks them to share their 
sentences with each other in pairs, and then with the class   (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, D3.2, V4.2, CS2.13,CS2.14, 
CS2.16.1, CS2.16.2) Both the teacher and the class members give feedback to the students as they say their 
sentences  (CS2.19).  The teacher gives all students a checklist with simple symbols to evaluate each other’s 
work as explained in the items  (5) and  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.  (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3). 
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate students’ further practice with the target 
language chunks in the theme ’’ classroom life”, the teacher shows some other sentences with these chunks 

===== PDF_PAGE_444 =====
444
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
in another context such as a short story, a short paragraph, and a short dialogue etc. and asks students to 
find the sentences with the target chunks in them and asks if they understand them  (SELS3.2,
V3.3, V16.1, V16.3, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.8).  She/He gives some written activities and exercises to practise the 
target chunks in context. She/He also facilitates more fun activities and as described in items  (5),  (8),  (9), 
and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. To consolidate the 
target language chunks, the teacher organises different fun activity and game bundles that the students can 
practise and consolidate them  (CS2.13) where their learning can be checked as described in item  (10) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (D2.5, V4.4). 
ENG5.2.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION : Practising through writing: Writing activities 
help students  to  produce  and  display  meaningful  written  language  for  their  personal  expression  and 
communication with others, by using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and 
the social language in this theme, as in other themes.  (V3.2, V16.1, V16.3). 
ENG5.2.W2.
RECOGNISING THE MODEL:  Initially, students produce very limited and short pieces of writing such as 
sentences to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme ’’ classroom life”,. They practise 
the language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat or simply explain what they hear 
and see in context and what they are asked to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy to be 
able to notice significant points and elements in it  (SELS3.1).  While copying a short model writing, they 
become aware of the aspects such as the use of words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on  
(D3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). 
ENG5.2.W3.
CREATING THE WRITING CONTENT: Controlled writing of words and sentences turns to short paragraphs in 
a process writing manner with the support of the teacher’s feedback in the theme. This process is expanded 
and supported by several practical activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/ 
pantomime/video stories, dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, 
etc. to practise further by writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (D1.3, D3.1, SELS3.2,V3.4, V4.4, V7.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG5.2.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
projects, scripts for plays, diaries/journals, blogs, very short film scenarios, etc. to express their ideas, 
thoughts, and feelings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be contextual, practical, 
authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests and language level.   (V3.4, V7.2, V9.3, V12.1, LS1, 
LS4, LS9). 
ENG5.2.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING: Students  interact  and  communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the language including the target words, language 
chunks, and the social language for the theme in their writing  (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V16.1,V16.3, 
LS9, CS2.20). AI- based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways  

===== PDF_PAGE_445 =====
445
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
(D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3,V7.2, LS2, CS2.20)These activities are evaluated as described in items  (11) and  (12) 
in the section 1.2. Principles  for  the  Implementation  of  the  English  Curriculum.
ENG5.2.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (D1.5, SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design.   (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, 
V20.4, LS1). 
ENG5.2.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING: The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from the 
first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance students’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful   language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language 
including the target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language expressions of the theme.  
(V3.2, V3.4, V16.1, V16.3). 
ENG5.2.S2
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL: In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, students 
recognise how the language with the target language items is used  (CS2.6).  They practise the language in a 
controlled way, by telling, repeating, explaining what they hear and see in the context  (D1.3, D3.2, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.4). 
ENG5.1.S3
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT : In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues etc. as new opportunities for the students to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc  (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13). 
ENG5.2.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS:  Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products 
related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact 
with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V16.1,  V16.3, 
CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings   
(D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, V7.2,LS2, LS9, CS2.20).  
ENG5.2.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Students communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related 
to the theme ’’ classroom life”, in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.3, CS2.20).  Picture 
strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision  (V3.4, V4.2, V12.1, 
LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and 
appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. Storification and gamification techniques are 
actively and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme. Students 

===== PDF_PAGE_446 =====
446
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, 
speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people in 
or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar in use, and the 
social language for the theme and its components  (V3.4, V4.2, V16.1, V16.3, LS4, CS3.1, CS2.20).  AI-based 
technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They can also 
produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.3, V7.2, 
LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items  (7),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use and practise by 
communicating with others.
ENG5.2.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole speaking-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and 
take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different activities 
for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design.  (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, LS1). 
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To ask and answer questions about the time of actions in English by using the target language 
items.
Activity 1: “A Class Survey”
To do a class survey students walk around the classroom and ask three classmates, “What time do you ___?” 
for different actions. They write down the answers in a chart (e.g., Name, Action, Time). Then, they analyse the 
results in writing, e.g., “Most students wake up at 7:00” and report them to the class by using simple present 
tense. Students share their charts in groups and give positive feedback to each other. As a self-reflection 
activity students are given a chart on which they circle or colour an emoji/emoticon that represents how they 
feel about their performance. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To ask and answer questions about the time of actions in English by using the target language 
items.
Activity: A Class Survey
To do a class survey students walk around the classroom and ask three classmates, “What time do you 
___?” for different actions. The teacher presents vocabulary for common actions (wake up, go to school, eat 
lunch, etc.) and common times (7:00 am, 12:30 pm, etc.) on a handout or classroom board. Students write 
down the answers in a chart (e.g., Name, Action, Time). The teacher provides a partially completed chart for 
them. Students write down a few sentences in simple present tense based on the chart. Students share 
their charts in groups and give positive feedback to each other. As a self-reflection activity students circle or 
colour an emoji/emoticon that represents how they feel about their performance. Students reflect on their 
thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_447 =====
447
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 3: PERSONAL LIFE
Sub-themes: Basic body parts and physical features; 
clothes; daily routines and activities
This theme is centred on the concept of “personal life” and covers the sub-
themes of “basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and 
activities”. These components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning 
process through the contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical 
structures, phonological features, and social language expressions. The 
learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, 
and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ developmental 
level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to 
equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively 
use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3.Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1 Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2 Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill 
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V10. Modesty, V11. 
Independence, V12. Patience, V13. Healthy Living, V16. Responsibility, V18. 
Cleanliness, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_448 =====
448
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Physical Education and Sports, Visual Arts, 
Music, Information Technologies and Software
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information 
Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. 
Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based 
Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, 
CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing Skill, CS2.20. 
Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_449 =====
449
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 5 is structured based on semi-holistic/semi-inductive approach.
 LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.5.3.L1.  Students can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “personal life with basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines 
and activities” carefully.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience related to the current theme 
and content by recalling their background knowledge imaginatively in her/his own language 
without speaking it.
b) Students identify significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge and 
experiences and the clues to the current content without translation.
c) Students make predictions about the current content on “personal life” by using the 
relationships that they recognised accurately by looking at the provided realia, pictures, and 
context.
d) Students make predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/visual 
elements in relation to the current theme.
ENG.5.3.L2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “personal life with basic body 
parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” together through significant 
details and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Students comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole.
b) Students recognise the significant details and components within the whole current content 
by listening (to) and watching it again in a careful manner.
ENG.5.3.L3.  Students can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “personal life 
with basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” through 
significant details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Students check any initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals surrounding the current 
content.
b) Students make important and necessary classifications in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
c) Students make important and necessary comparisons in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content with the help of classifications and comparisons made 
earlier.
e) Students make significant inferences that contribute to the understanding of the meaning of 
the generally perceived current content.
f) Students construct the meaning of the current content in detail through the classifications/
comparisons/inferences made earlier in relation to it.
g) Students internalise the current content in an individualised and appropriate way according to 
age and language level.
ENG.5.3.L4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully 
about the whole listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current 
content on “personal life with basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines 
and activities”.

===== PDF_PAGE_450 =====
450
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content.
b) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content by sharing them with others.
ENG.5.3.P1.  Students can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“personal life with basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” 
accurately, authentically, and naturally through spontaneous decision-making processes and 
use it in an appropriate and effective way when communicating with others.
a) Listening to the current content by paying attention to the target phonological aspects 
including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Students reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source 
several times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Students recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts.
d) Students recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they 
are heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Students use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.5.3.R1.  Students can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content 
on “personal life with basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and 
activities”. 
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content efficiently.
b) Students recognise significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Students make significant preliminary predictions about the current content based on 
recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring the audio-visual 
clues surrounding it.
ENG.5.3.R2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “personal life with basic body 
parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” through skimming (looking 
quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Students review the current content by looking at the surrounding audio/visual materials to 
identify what it is about in general through skimming.
b) Students read the current content to scan the major components silently and quickly with the 
help of the clues provided. 
c) Students carefully read the current content silently and carefully to find significant details and 
components belonging to the theme.
ENG.5.3.R3.  Students can make meaning of / derive meaning from the current content about “personal life 
with basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” by reading 
it carefully.
a) Students carefully check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial and detailed 
predictions that are made earlier. 

===== PDF_PAGE_451 =====
451
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students classify the significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
c) Students compare significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships within the current 
content that contribute to the perception of the content in a meaningful way.
e) Students make meaningful inferences from the information in the current content by examining 
it carefully.
f) Students internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to age and language level.
ENG.5.3.R4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “personal life with basic body 
parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” in relation to themselves or 
others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have 
been carefully examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process.
b) Students convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been carefully 
examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing 
them with others.
c) Students produce new products related to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities. 
ENG.5.3.V1.  Students can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “personal life 
with basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” accurately, 
authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when 
communicating with others.
a) Students guess the main topic of the current content from the audio/visual/written elements 
(e.g. sound, voices, scenes, written words) in the contextual material by listening (to)/watching/
reading it several times for recognition.
b) Students recognise sub-themes/key components of the target words to which they belong in 
the current content by scanning.
c) Students recognise the target words related to the main components of the current content 
with the help of the audio/visual/written elements and other clues.
d) Repeating aloud the relevant target key components and target vocabulary in the current 
content with the whole class, in groups, and then individually together with or after listening 
(to)/watching/reading the source material.
e) Students recognise the use of target words and expressions in the current content by making 
various guesses with the help of supplementary elements.
f) Students make context-appropriate selections automatically by associating target words 
with their pre-existing conceptual meanings in the mind without analysing their contextual 
meaning in detail. 
g) Students use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts by being aware of their differences when communicating with others.
ENG.5.3.G1.  Students can select and use the target grammatical elements of the current content about 
“personal life with basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” 
accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively 
when communicating with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_452 =====
452
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Being familiar with the current content by listening (to)/watching/reading it a few times 
attentively.
b) Students listen (to)/watch/read the same content, attentively and mindfully, including the use 
of target grammatical chunks presented verbally in context with the help of body language.
c) Students verbally and automatically repeat simple and meaningful clauses/sentences 
containing target grammatical chunks that they have noticed in the current content that they 
have heard/viewed/read without explicit knowledge of the rules.
d) Students act out physically the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks 
in the current content heard/viewed/read by repeating them several times without knowing, 
analysing, and thinking about their rules.
e) Students see and read the example sentences containing target grammatical chunks provided 
for language awareness carefully.
f) Students gain awareness of clauses/sentences that contain target grammatical chunks that 
are presented for the purpose of raising language awareness.
g) Students recognise the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks when 
they encounter them by seeing and/or hearing them in different contexts.
h) Students use the recognised target grammatical chunks naturally, authentically, and 
automatically in new contextual tasks and activities without analysing their rules.
i) Students produce new and meaningful verbal/written content about the current theme by 
using the target grammatical chunks in meaningful tasks without knowing and analysing their 
rules.
j) Students use the target language chunks authentically, automatically, and naturally in 
communication processes without analysing their rules in meaningful contexts.
ENG.5.3.W1.  Students can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content 
on “personal life with basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and 
activities”.
a) Students relate their pre-existing knowledge and experience used in the initial processes of 
writing-expression skills to the current content by activating them in relation with the current 
content.
b) Students understand what the writing task and its content are in relation to the current 
content correctly by making use of their pre-existing knowledge and experience as guided and 
assigned.
ENG.5.3.W2.  Students can understand the model/example for the writing task about the current content 
on “personal life with basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and 
activities”.
a) Students understand the components and details of the content in the provided model/
sample which is displayed as a guide, by examining it carefully.
ENG.5.3.W3.  Students can organise a content for the assigned writing task on the current content “personal 
life with basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” based 
on the model/example provided.
a) Students conduct preliminary research for a prepared writing situation according to the 
current content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
b) Students develop a simple draft for a prepared/or unprepared writing task about the current 
content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
c) Students organise and/or produce materials relevant to the content for a prepared/
unprepared writing task, appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level. 

===== PDF_PAGE_453 =====
453
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.5.3.W4.  Students can individually construct/form content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “personal life with basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and 
activities”.
a) Students present appropriate and accurate materials for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task about the current theme according to the assigned writing type, age, and language 
level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and rules relevant to the assigned writing 
type for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language chunks accurately and appropriately 
for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task about the current content by selecting them 
according to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
d) Students express important messages in the written current content to the reader accurately 
and appropriately for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
ENG.5.3.W5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information in the new written tasks about 
the “personal life with basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and 
activities” to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information in the current content or similar information in a different content 
by internalising and selecting it individually and reorganising it as required and meaningfully in 
different contexts.
b) Students exchange information/ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge meaningfully with others.
ENG.5.3.W6.  Students can reflect on their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “personal life with basic body parts 
and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” in relation to themselves or 
others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in 
relation to the current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in relation to the 
writing-expression process about the current content with others.
c) Students produce new written products related to the current writing-expression content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities.
ENG.5.3.S1.  Students can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on 
“personal life with basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities”.
a) Students make connections with the current content by activating their pre-existing 
knowledge and experiences that they have recalled in the listening (to)/watching/reading 
sections previously.
ENG.5.3.S2.  Students can use the model/example for producing verbal content about the current content 
on “personal life with basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and 
activities”.
a) Students listen (to)/watch/read the model/example for the current content with the help of 
audio/visual/written elements.
ENG.5.3.S3.  Students can organise a new verbal content on “personal life with basic body parts and 
physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” by speaking accurately, efficiently, 
and authentically.
a) Students recognise what form and type of content is expected and assigned for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations based on audio/visual/written content as provided in the 
model/example.

===== PDF_PAGE_454 =====
454
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students organise the content for prepared/unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate 
and accurate way as they have heard/seen/read in the model/example.
c) Students develop a draft for prepared/unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the age 
and language level as presented in the model/sample content.
d) Students organise supplementary audio/visual/written materials for prepared/or unprepared 
speaking situations, appropriate to age and language level, as provided in the model/sample 
content.
e) Students organise the information about the current content to be presented for prepared/or 
unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate way as required.
ENG.5.3.S4.  Students can construct a new verbal content on “personal life with basic body parts and 
physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” by speaking accurately, efficiently, 
and authentically.
a) Students use target pronunciation, vocabulary, language chunks, and forms of discourse 
related to the current content effectively by selecting them accurately and appropriately for 
prepared/unprepared speaking situations.
b) Students present individually prepared content in an accurate and efficient way as presented 
in the model/example for prepared speaking situations clearly, efficiently, and appropriately.
c) Students present individually prepared information in an accurate and efficient way as 
presented in the model/example for unprepared speaking situations.
d) Students express the message about the current content clearly to the reader by using all 
supplementary elements and body language in an appropriate and accurate way in context for 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.5.3.S5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information about the “personal life with basic 
body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” to communicate with 
other people.
a) Students use the information presented in the current content by reorganising it appropriately, 
efficiently, individually, and verbally in different contexts.
b) Students engage in appropriate and efficient verbal communication by sharing the 
reconstructed meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.5.3.S6.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
speaking-expression process about the current content, “personal life with basic body parts 
and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” to communicate with other people 
in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully in 
relation to the speaking-expression process about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_455 =====
455
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
PERSONAL LIFE: 
Sub-Themes: Basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for basic body parts and physical features: Nouns: A neck, a finger, an arm, a body, an eye, 
a face, a foot, hair, a hand, a head, a nose, a tooth, teeth, height, a leg. Adjectives: Thin, average, curly, 
straight, round, square, tall, short, wavy, oval.
Vocabulary for clothes: Nouns: A belt, trousers (pants-AmE), a ring, a bag, boots, a cap, a coat, a (fancy 
dress) costume, a dress, earrings, fashion, glasses, gloves, a handbag, a hat, a jacket, jeans, a jumper 
(a sweater-AmE), a necklace, a raincoat, a scarf, a headscarf, a shirt, shoes, shorts, a skirt, a sock, 
sunglasses, a T-shirt, an umbrella, a watch, silver, clothing, a bow, an outfit. Verbs: To own, to try on, to 
wear, to create. Adjectives: Thick, thin, trendy, comfortable, ordinary, fancy, different, cool.
Vocabulary for daily routines and activities: Nouns: A computer, a book, a magazine, music, a video 
game, a map, a path, an adventure, an adventurer, a fashion show. Verbs: To watch, to draw, to read, to go 
shopping, to go out, to travel, to smile, to find. Adjectives: Daily, general.
Adverbs of frequency: rarely, sometimes, always, never
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Simple Present Tense: (She wears her blue coat every winter.)
-Question Tags for the Simple Present Tense: (She reads a book every evening, doesn’t she?)
-Adverbs of Frequency (How often): (He usually wears sunglasses in summer.)
-Possessive adjectives: My, your, his, her, our, your, their (I love my bag.)
Functions of the Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of The Simple Present Tense: Describing daily routines or habits.
-Use of Question Tags for the Simple Present Tense: Checking or confirming general truths, actions or 
habits.
-Use of Adverbs of Frequency (How often): Expressing the frequency of actions or events.
-Use of Possessive Adjectives: Showing ownership in relation to nouns.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations:  “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”. 
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and  Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage  will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table of contents for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum. 
Target Social Language in Use :
I’ll pop round to see you later! 
Don’t make fun of people! 
Let’s sort out the problem!

===== PDF_PAGE_456 =====
456
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Target Phonological Sounds in Use: 
Intonation of questions and question tags.
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “personal life” and its components such as “basic body parts and physical 
features; clothes; daily routines and activities” is present in almost all languages. People who start to learn a 
new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to their new language learning. For 
instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what “personal life” and its components such as “basic 
body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” means but will not know how to say 
them in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing 
knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more 
easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts
basic body parts, physical features, clothes, daily routines, daily activities
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT : Students will write a digital diary/journal describing their “daily routines, 
activities, and their timing in their personal lives” during a school term. They will present it with digital 
resources and/or realia by acting out the routines recorded in it. The assignment will be evaluated by using a 
rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “personal life” and its components such as “basic body 
parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities”. As they are lower secondary school 
students in year 5 (five), they can know what “personal life” and its components such as “basic body parts and 
physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” mean in their own language as it is known that almost 
all people who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with 
them and transfer it to their new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these 
things in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this 
existing knowledge in their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily 
in a foreign language, in this case English.
As they are students in year 5 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about 
“personal life” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or years. These 
grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning of the year, and 
they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current theme, so 
that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “personal life” and its components such as “basic body parts and physical features; 
clothes; daily routines and activities”. Recalling and practising with relevant vocabulary and grammatical 
items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as a basis for moving on and 
learning the current content on the concept of “personal life”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to 
revise all vocabulary and language chunks from the previous themes in previous years by giving instructions 
in English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much 
they remember and how much they are able to understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and 
chunks to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in 
order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. 
(Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics throughout these practices.)

===== PDF_PAGE_457 =====
457
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Establishing Links
Students can recall the current (theme) concept of “personal life” and its components such as “basic 
body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” by remembering their pre-existing 
background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with the 
current activities in the current theme in English without translating anything until they start learning the 
target words in the current (new) concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
various materials such as short scene from a film, series, a part from a story, a poster etc. which is appropriate 
to the age, level, and pedagogy could be used before the main teaching/learning flow of the class begins. 
They would give a general idea of the theme. Students are facilitated with the relevant materials through 
various activities.  When they have finished working on it, the teacher asks them in English if they understood 
what was it about. For checking their understanding, she can design several activities. For instance, they 
can write a related word that they know in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways can be tried.
The teacher asks them to wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the digital introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any 
further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme  ‘‘personal life” in the classroom, to prepare the students emotionally, 
cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker 
to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This 
could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing 
a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote/a very short story, watching a 
pantomime/cartoon story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require 
any knowledge of English  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4). 
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills  (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection 
and use) are used in an integrated way around ‘’personal life” and sub-themes“basic body parts and physical 
features; clothes; daily routines and activities” , allowing students to build background knowledge through 
receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a 
meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although 
they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in 
a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development 
and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a balanced integration of all the 
skills, where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) 
and respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their vocabulary, 
grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG5.3.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION : Having seen a visual about and having 
guessed the topic of ‘’personal life” during the background recall session, students can have a vision of the 
current theme as a general concept in the current  (new) theme  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, V12.3, V13.1, V13.4, 
V18.1, V18.2, LS1, LS4, LS5,CS2.11, CS2.16.2).  So, a further concept check with listening/watching for gist 
activities including more guessing games using clues from some pictures, realia, short video clips etc. help 
them prepare for the current theme  (CS2.6, CS2.8).  For each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as 
the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through the theme to cover target 
pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole 

===== PDF_PAGE_458 =====
458
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
theme  (CS2.14).  It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. The 
teacher asks them whether their guesses during the background recall session were correct and also what 
they think the introductory digital story that they are going to watch could be about  (CS2.8).  As they have 
already seen a scene from a film about the theme and the pictures, realia, etc. they can easily answer what 
the current theme will be about and that their guesses were true  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.3, V3.4, 
V12.3,V13.1, V13.4, V18.1, V18.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17). 
ENG5.3.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING: The teacher asks the students to 
watch the introductory digital story carefully, recalling the work done with visuals  (the scene from a film, 
pictures, realia, or video clips about the theme shown earlier)   (CS2.11 ).  Students watch the introductory 
digital story to consolidate the identification of the ‘’personal life” in it as a whole  (CS2.13) without stopping 
the video at any point, so that the students can understand the theme holistically  (D3.2,SELS1.1, V3.3, V3.4, 
V12.3, V13.1, V13.4, V18.1, V18.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.14, CS2.16.2). 
ENG5.3.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw students’ attention to the 
content, some realia brought into the classroom by the teacher could be used  (V12.3, V13.1, V13.4, V18.1, 
V18.2, LS5).  The teacher could show the corresponding objects to the students when the corresponding 
vocabulary for the main components of the theme ‘’personal life” is mentioned in the introductory digital 
story, without stopping the video while the students watch the story  (CS2.6 ).  When they have watched 
the whole story, the teacher could show the realia items on the table and ask questions with two options  
(CS2.5).  As one of the words is from the previous themes, students could hear, understand, recognise and 
learn the  (new) target vocabulary for each main component of the theme easily  (CS2.1).  In this way, the 
teacher could engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the components 
of the theme, and that they have understood each realia item is about one component  (CS2.8).  Further 
activities and games can be played at this stage to reinforce the general meaning of the theme through its 
main components  (D1.1, D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4). 
To check whether the students understand the general topic of the theme ‘’personal life” and remember 
the sequence of the scenes of the introductory digital story, the teacher shows an organiser with the mixed 
images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the students to look at the images/pictures of 
the scenes for a while  (CS2.3).  She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs in their seats with the 
mixed paper pictures she/he has already given to the students  (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS4 ). When the 
pairs have finished sorting the pictures for the scenes of the story, the teacher asks the students to take 
turns or volunteer to sort the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board  (or the pictures on the blackboard)  
(SELS1.2, V11.1,  CS2.6, CS2.10).  This will help the students to organise the story as a whole so that they can 
identify the main theme and the components of the theme from their memories  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, V16.3, 
V20.4, CS2.12). 
ENG5.3.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/ W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process   (SELS1.3, V3.4) . Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  ( CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, LS5 ).  
The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design  (V10.3). 

===== PDF_PAGE_459 =====
459
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.3.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: To practise pronunciation of the new target words, word groups, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme ‘’personal life” and the words and/or word 
groups for the sub-themes “basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” , 
the teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the whole or some extracts from the introductory digital 
story by noticing how words are pronounced  (V3.3, V12.3, V13.1, V13.4, V18.1, V18.2, LS4, LS5, CS2.6).  She/
He asks them to repeat the word aloud when she/he stops the video for a word and says it. The teacher then 
asks the students to listen and repeat the same words aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to 
the recordings that she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes  (LS2, CS2.16.3) . 
The teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as showing the picture of the target word 
to the students to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the 
recording, and then both  (CS2.8).  To help the students pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks 
them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in 
large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V4.2, V11.1, 
V20.4, LS1, CS2.14). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Practice of pronunciation could be done with different 
forms of TPR, gamification and drama activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words/word groups
for the sub-themes “basic body parts and physical features; clothes; daily routines and activities” , the 
students listen  (CS2.9);  then the teacher says the target words/word groups and acts them out, the 
students repeat after her/him  (SELS2.1, CS2.14).  Then the teacher and the students say the target words/
word groups and act them out together at the same time. Then the teacher says the words/word groups and 
acts them out. These activities can be done through the actions for the sub-themes  (D2.3,D2.5, V3.3, V12.3, 
V13.1, V13.4, V18.1, V18.2, LS5) .  As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, 
sadly, angrily, etc. using different tones of voice  (SELS2.3, CS2.8, CS2.11).  They also practise for the target 
social language chunks using the same or similar techniques. During the repetitions, they point to relevant 
pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom  (CS2.12).  Some action sequences 
are also created in which the students can practise the social language in a fun way by repeating, pointing, 
miming, and acting out in several games  (SELS2.1, V7.2, LS5, LS9). The teacher facilitates some activities 
with dialogues and games in which students can practice the target pronunciation by selecting and using 
them accurately, naturally, and authentically  (CS3.1).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, 
such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several 
sound drills  (SELS2.2).  The target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are 
practised through them  (CS2.13).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.5, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4).  
ENG5.3.R1
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS: The teacher facilitates reading and writing 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise 
techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the 
theme in various forms and amounts. Reading is done in two ways in the theme by using the written version 
of the introductory digital story and additional reading texts in reading sections of the instructional material 
to be used  (V3.2, LS2, LS4) .  Various reading styles including silent reading, speed reading, jigsaw reading 
and basic reading techniques including skimming, scanning, and reading for details during pre-reading, 
while-reading and post-reading phases are used in the theme   (V3.4, LS1, CS2.3, CS2.6) . The ultimate aim 
of reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills and 
critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend and talk/write about the content in a meaningful and 
communicative way  (V3.3, V7.2, LS5, CS3.3). For the initial stage of reading, the teacher asks the students 
to look at the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) 
surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory story or a new text in the reading section of 

===== PDF_PAGE_460 =====
460
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the conceptual meanings they already have about 
the theme  (CS2.8).  At this stage, the teacher could ask the students to read the title of the theme and ask 
the students which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title  (SELS1.1, 
CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new words or the words they do not know. 
She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity by using the words they know and that there is time 
to work on the new words of the new theme later  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, CS2.10, CS2.12). 
ENG5.3.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING : Students go on with a scanning activity to find 
out the most important details of the introductory digital story and/or a new text in the reading section which 
is organised to help students to know more about the reading content  (CS2.6, CS2.7).  In this way they could 
be able to recognise the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or 
tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned  (quickly read) in the story  (CS2.4).  By doing so, they 
will be able to understand the story/text in general using the main elements  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, V3.4, LS1). 
ENG5.3.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Then the teacher asks the students to do a jigsaw reading activity, 
so she/he shows the written version of the introductory digital story or the text in the reading section on 
the blackboard/Smart Board  (or in any other teaching material).  She/He asks the students to work in pairs 
to share the text  (SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the text and the second peer reads the other 
half of the text in a given time  (CS2.6).  They are then asked to share what they have understood from their 
part with their peer, also in a given time. In this way, they talk about the whole story after reading it silently, 
in the jigsaw reading style  (D2.4, D3.6, V3.4, V4.2, V16.2, LS1, CS2.8, CS2.9).  Some speed-reading activities 
can be used to develop students’ reading and comprehension skills. These activities can be evaluated as 
explained in the item  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After 
sharing their parts, students proceed with the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical 
chunks, and semantic meaning relatively with the help of the teacher  (CS2.14).  For dealing with the semantic 
meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, 
open- ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1).  From display to communicative open-ended, various 
types of questions are used to understand the meaning of the text  (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, CS2.6).  During this 
process students work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings  (D3.2, D3.7, V3.3, 
V7.2, V20.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 
ENG5.3.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process  (SELS1.3).  Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive   (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates 
different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design   (D 2.3, D3.5, 
V4.2, V6.2, V10.3, V12.1, LS1). 
ENG5.3.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY : At this stage, students remember what the 
theme is about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/ 
watching, and pre-reading sessions  (SELS1.1).  As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal with the 
main components and target vocabulary of the theme  (V3.2, LS1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_461 =====
461
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY : A scanning activity to find out the main details of the 
introductory digital story  (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help students to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some important pictures, words or events about the main components 
of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen 
and scanned  (quickly read) in the story. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general 
by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items  (D3.2, D3.6, LS1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7) Then the students read the written version of the digital story again silently,  
(or the reading text in the reading section), to check whether they know any of the target vocabulary items 
about the theme  (V12.3, V13.1, V13.4, V18.1, V18.2, CS2.8). They underline the words whose meaning they do 
not know while reading silently  (CS2.17).  Students say these words when they finish reading and the teacher 
writes these words on the Smart Board/blackboard/ white board as they say them. The teacher writes 
only the target words on the Smart Board/blackboard as active words that the students have said. She/He 
quickly deals with the non-target passive vocabulary items by using pictures, mimics, gestures, imitations, 
examples, etc. But she/he takes time to facilitate the teaching of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.2, V3.3, 
V3.4, LS2, LS4, CS2.4, CS2.5, CS2.7). 
To introduce and practise the meanings of the target vocabulary related to the theme, that the students do 
not know, the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story  (or the video of the reading 
text if there is one) again. From the beginning, whenever a target item is mentioned, the teacher stops the 
video and asks several questions in the form of two options, one of which is a word from the previous themes 
that they already know  (V12.3, V13.1, V13.4, V18.1, V18.2, LS5, CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what they are, 
the students hear the English equivalents of the words for the theme and they answer as a whole class in 
chorus. In this way, they are introduced to the meanings of the target words  ( D1.2, D1.6,D3.7, CS2.10).  This 
is conducted in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (SELS2.1)  
(7),  (8), and  (9) in the section1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.   (V3.3, V3.4, 
LS1, LS2, LS4).  After having watched the introductory digital story, the teacher shows some pictures for the 
sub-themes, on the walls as clues and says the words aloud several times in sentences by pointing to the 
pictures and the students repeat after her/him  (D2.3, V12.3, V13.1, V13.4, V18.1, V18.2,LS5, CS2.6, CS2.11).  
In this way, the main vocabulary items of the theme are introduced to the students in English as described in 
item  (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY : The teacher can prepare an activity using the Web 2.0 
programme with images/pictures, and symbolic images for some categories about the components of 
the theme ’’personal life ‘’. She/He also prepares mixed images/pictures for target vocabulary items for the 
activities which can be done in relation to the components. She/He asks the students to look at the mixed 
pile of images/pictures of the main components of the theme on the Smart Board screen and scan them for 
a while to remember them  (V12.3, V13.1, V13.4, V18.1, V18.2, LS5, CS2.4). She/He explains to the students 
that the items will be placed under the correct category, but first she/he gives the students the cut-out 
pictures of the activities and a large sheet of paper with the categories written on it and the cut-out pictures 
will be placed under each category correctly  (V3.3, L2, LS4, CS2.5). The teacher asks them to work in pairs 
and place the cut-out pictures in the right category and ask each other some questions about the theme  
(D3.2, D3.8, SELS2.2, V12.3, V13.1, V13.4, V18.1, V18.2, LS5).  When the students have finished working with 
the cut-out pictures and asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns 
or volunteer to go to the Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures under the right category 
on the screen  (SELS1.2, V3.4,V11.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant 
to the main concept and its components are consolidated through categorisation. This activity can be 
done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. The teacher asks the 
students to copy the words next to the pictures they have pasted or drawn in their picture dictionaries and 
then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling  (D3.2, 
SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS9). To consolidate the meaning, selection, and use of the new target 
vocabulary items, the teacher could organise activities and tasks using pictures, flashcards, sounds, realia, 

===== PDF_PAGE_462 =====
462
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
and any other materials to play games such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, Wordscapes, 
Scrabble, Pictionary, Letter Scramble, Acronyms, Charades etc. Games could be adapted according to the 
teacher’s objectives  (pronunciation, spelling, meaning, selection, use etc.), age, interests and language level 
of the students  (CS2.13).  Students can be asked to create their own games to use the target vocabulary 
items in context  (D2.5, D.3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V4.2, V4.4, V7.2, V12.3, V13.1, V13.4, V18.1, V18.2, LS5, LS9, 
CS2.20).  Students’ learning can be checked as described in items  (3), and  (4) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG5.3.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS : To draw the students’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme’’personal life ‘’, the introductory digital story or an extract from it played so that the 
students can notice the target language chunks  (D3.2, CS2.2).  While watching the introductory digital 
story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the 
action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the students to do the same  (V3.2, LS2, CS2.14). 
She could hold up large pictures corresponding to the chunks when they are mentioned in the digital story 
to draw the students’ attention. The sentences with the target chunks are also written and placed on the 
Smart Board/blackboard/ whiteboard. The teacher also points to these sentences while pointing to the 
scenes in the story where they appear. There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this 
stage. Students can automatically and naturally identify the use of the target language chunks in the current 
context created in the introductory digital story without working on any rules or structures  (SELS3.1, V3.4, 
LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  To check the students’ identification of the target language chunks, 
after the students have finished watching the introductory digital story, the teacher asks them to read 
the sentences with the target language chunks written by the teacher on the Smart Board /blackboard/
whiteboard and asks them to find the same or similar sentences in the written version of the introductory 
digital story or another text that is shown on the Smart Board  (D3.2, SELS3.2, V3.3). She/He also asks them 
to find the same or similar sentences with these chunks which are given in different types of tables prepared 
by the teacher  (CS2.7).  These tables do not include any explanations of grammatical rules, explanations, 
or formulas, and they only contain example sentences with target chunks in which important words with the 
target grammar are written in bold or different colours to attract students’ attention. The teacher asks them 
to look at the words in bold or in different colours and asks students to examine them  (CS2.9).  Then the 
teacher asks the students to copy these sentences with target chunks written in bold or different colours 
into their notebooks. The teacher asks the students to make very similar sentences using the target words 
and asks them to share their sentences with each other in pairs, and then with the class  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, 
D3.2, V4.2, CS2.13,CS2.14, CS2.16.1, CS2.16.2) Both the teacher and the class members give feedback to 
the students as they say their sentences  (CS2.19).  The teacher gives all students a checklist with simple 
symbols to evaluate each other’s work as explained in the items  (5) and  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3). 
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate students’ further practice with the target 
language chunks in the theme ’’ personal life ‘’ ,the teacher shows some other sentences with these chunks 
in another context such as a short story, a short paragraph, and a short dialogue etc. and asks students to 
find the sentences with the target chunks in them and asks if they understand them   (SELS3.2, V3.3, V12.3, 
V13.1, V13.4, V18.1, V18.2,LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.8) .  She/He gives some written activities and exercises 
to practise the target chunks in context. She/He also facilitates more fun activities and as described in 
items  (5),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. To 
consolidate the target language chunks, the teacher organises different fun activity and game bundles that 
the students can practise and consolidate them  (CS2.13) where their learning can be checked as described 
in item  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (D2.5, V4.4). 

===== PDF_PAGE_463 =====
463
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.3.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION : Practising through writing: Writing activities 
help students  to  produce  and  display  meaningful  written  language  for  their  personal  expression  and 
communication with others, by using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and 
the social language in this theme, as in other themes  (V3.2, V12.3, V13.1, V13.4, V18.1, V18.2, LS5). 
ENG5.3.W2.
RECOGNISING THE MODEL:  Initially, students produce very limited and short pieces of writing such as 
sentences to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme ’’ personal life ‘’. They practise 
the language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat or simply explain what they hear 
and see in context and what they are asked to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy to be 
able to notice significant points and elements in it  (SELS3.1).  While copying a short model writing, they 
become aware of the aspects such as the use of words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on  
(D3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). 
ENG5.3.W3.
CREATING THE WRITING CONTENT: Controlled writing of words and sentences turns to short paragraphs in 
a process writing manner with the support of the teacher’s feedback in the theme. This process is expanded 
and supported by several practical activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/ 
pantomime/video stories, dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, 
etc. to practise further by writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (D1.3, D3.1, SELS3.2,V3.4, V4.4, V7.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG5.3.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
projects, scripts for plays, diaries/journals, blogs, very short film scenarios, etc. to express their ideas, 
thoughts, and feelings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be contextual, practical, 
authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests and language level.   (V3.4, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, 
LS9). 
ENG5.3.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students  interact  and  communicate 
with peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme in their writing  (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, 
V12.3, V13.1, V13.4, V18.1,V18.2, LS5, LS9, CS2.20). AI- based technologies can be used for various activities, 
giving students access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school 
and at home in a variety of ways  (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20)These activities are evaluated 
as described in items  (11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles  for  the  Implementation  of  the  English  
Curriculum.
ENG5.3.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 

===== PDF_PAGE_464 =====
464
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
about them  (D1.5, SELS1.3,V11.1, CS2.15) .  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates 
different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design.   (V4.3, V6.2, 
V10.3, V20.4, LS1). 
ENG5.3.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING: The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from the 
first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance students’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language 
including the target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language expressions of the theme 
.  (V3.2,V3.4, V12.3, V13.1, V13.4, V18.1, V18.2, LS5). 
ENG5.3.S2
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL: In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, students 
recognise how the language with the target language items is used  (CS2.6).  They practise the language in a 
controlled way, by telling, repeating, explaining what they hear and see in the context  (D1.3, D3.2, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.4). 
ENG5.3.S3
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues etc. as new opportunities for the students to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc  (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13). 
ENG5.3.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS:  Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products 
related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact 
with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V12.3, V13.1,V13.4, 
V18.1, V18.2, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access 
to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, V7.2, LS2, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG5.3.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Students communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related 
to the theme ’’personal life ‘’ in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.3, CS2.20).  Picture 
strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision  (V3.4, V4.2, V12.1, 
LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and 
appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. Storification and gamification techniques are 
actively and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme. Students 
are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, 
speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people in 
or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar in use, and the 
social language for the theme and its components such as “basic body parts and physical features; clothes; 
daily routines and activities” (V3.4, V4.2, V12.3, V13.1, V13.4,V18.1, V18.2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1, CS2.20).  AI-based 
technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They can also 
produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.3, V7.2, 
LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items  (7),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles 

===== PDF_PAGE_465 =====
465
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use and practise by 
communicating with others.
ENG5.3.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole speaking-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (SELS1.3,V11.1, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design.   (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, 
V20.4, LS1, LS6). 
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To describe basic body parts, physical features, and clothes in English. 
Activity 1: A Missing Person Poster
The teacher brings picture cards or cutouts with different people (diverse ages, physical features, 
and clothing). She/He tells students to work in pairs to create a missing person poster. Each pair gets a 
picture card of a person. Pairs write a short description of the person in the picture, including body parts, 
physical features, and clothing. The teacher shows the picture cards to the whole class or sticks them on 
the board. Pairs read their descriptive paragraphs aloud and students in the class match the descriptions 
with the pictures. Students give positive feedback to their friends for their clear descriptions. The teacher 
encourages students to reflect on their strengths and areas for improvement. Each student reflects on their 
performance during the activity and identifies: Three Stars (three things they did well) and One Wish (one 
thing they want to improve next time). Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To describe basic body parts, physical features, and clothes in English.
Activity: A Missing Person Poster
The teacher brings description cards that describe physical features, and clothing of a person. She/He tells 
students to work in pairs to create a missing person poster. Each pair gets a description card. Students read 
the given description paragraph and in pairs draw a picture of the missing person based on the paragraph. 
Students show their posters to their friends and give positive feedback to each other on their creativity and 
effort. The teacher encourages students to reflect on their strengths and areas for improvement. Each 
student reflects on their performance during the activity and identifies: Three Stars (three things they did 
well) and One Wish (one thing they want to improve next time). Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings 
about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE.  

===== PDF_PAGE_466 =====
466
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 4: FAMILY LIFE
Sub-themes: Family members’ routines; family 
members’ hobbies and activities
This theme is centred on the concept of “family life” and covers the sub-themes 
of “family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities”. These 
components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning process through the 
contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological 
features, and social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities 
are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are 
tailored to align with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and 
preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the 
knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively use English in their 
daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning , D3.2. Focus, D3.3.Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8.Questioning
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1 Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2 Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V2. Family Integrity, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, 
V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, V13. Healthy Living, V16. 
Responsibility, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS3. Financial Literacy, LS4. 
Visual Literacy, LS5. Cultural Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_467 =====
467
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Physical Education and Sports, Visual Arts, 
Music, Information Technologies and Software
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information 
Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. 
Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based 
Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, 
CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing Skill, CS2.20. 
Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_468 =====
468
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 5 is structured based on semi-holistic/semi-inductive approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.5.4.L1.  Students can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “family life with family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities” 
carefully.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience related to the current theme 
and content by recalling their background knowledge imaginatively in her/his own language 
without speaking it.
b) Students identify significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge and 
experiences and the clues to the current content without translation.
c) Students make predictions about the current content on “family life” by using the relationships 
that they recognised accurately by looking at the provided realia, pictures, and context.
d) Students make predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/visual 
elements in relation to the current theme.
ENG.5.4.L2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “family life with family members’ 
routines; family members’ hobbies and activities” together through significant details and 
main components while listening/watching it.
a) Students comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole.
b) Students recognise the significant details and components within the whole current content 
by listening (to) and watching it again in a careful manner.
ENG.5.4.L3.  Students can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “family life with 
family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities” through significant details 
by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Students check any initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals surrounding the current 
content.
b) Students make important and necessary classifications in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
c) Students make important and necessary comparisons in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content with the help of classifications and comparisons made 
earlier.
e) Students make significant inferences that contribute to the understanding of the meaning of 
the generally perceived current content.
f) Students construct the meaning of the current content in detail through the classifications/
comparisons/inferences made earlier in relation to it.
g) Students internalise the current content in an individualised and appropriate way according to 
age and language level.
ENG.5.4.L4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully 
about the whole listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content 
on “family life with family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities”.
a) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content.

===== PDF_PAGE_469 =====
469
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content by sharing them with others.
ENG.5.4.P1.  Students can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“family life with family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities” accurately, 
authentically, and naturally through spontaneous decision-making processes and use it in an 
appropriate and effective way when communicating with others.
a) Listening to the current content by paying attention to the target phonological aspects 
including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Students reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source 
several times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Students recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts.
d) Students recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they 
are heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Students use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.5.4.R1.  Students can get ready for the writing-comprehension process about the current content on 
“family life with family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities”. 
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content efficiently.
b) Students recognise significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences, and clues to the current content.
c) Students make significant preliminary predictions about the current content based on 
recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring the audio-visual 
clues surrounding it.
ENG.5.4.R2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “family life with family members’ 
routines; family members’ hobbies and activities” through skimming (looking quickly at) the 
audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Students review the current content by looking at the surrounding audio/visual materials to 
identify what it is about in general through skimming.
b) Students read the current content to scan the major components silently and quickly with the 
help of the clues provided. 
c) Students carefully read the current content silently and carefully to find significant details and 
components belonging to the theme.
ENG.5.4.R3.  Students can make meaning of / derive meaning from the current content about “family life 
with family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities” by reading it carefully.
a) Students carefully check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial and detailed 
predictions that are made earlier. 
b) Students classify the significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
c) Students compare significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.

===== PDF_PAGE_470 =====
470
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships within the current 
content that contribute to the perception of the content in a meaningful way.
e) Students make meaningful inferences from the information in the current content by 
examining it carefully.
f) Students internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to age and language level.
ENG.5.4.R4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “family life with family members’ 
routines; family members’ hobbies and activities” in relation to themselves or others, both 
individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have 
been carefully examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process.
b) Students convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been carefully 
examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing 
them with others.
c) Students produce new products related to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities. 
ENG.5.4.V1.  Students can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “family life with 
family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities” accurately, authentically, 
spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating 
with others.
a) Students guess the main topic of the current content from the audio/visual/written elements 
(e.g. sound, voices, scenes, written words) in the contextual material by listening (to)/watching/
reading it several times for recognition.
b) Students recognise sub-themes/key components of the target words to which they belong in 
the current content by scanning.
c) Students recognise the target words related to the main components of the current content 
with the help of the audio/visual/written elements and other clues.
d) Repeating aloud the relevant target key components and target vocabulary in the current 
content with the whole class, in groups, and then individually together with or after listening 
(to)/watching/reading the source material.
e) Students recognise the use of target words and expressions in the current content by making 
various guesses with the help of supplementary elements.
f) Students make context-appropriate selections automatically by associating target words 
with their pre-existing conceptual meanings in the mind without analysing their contextual 
meaning in detail. 
g) Students use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts by being aware of their differences when communicating with others.
ENG.5.4.G1.  Students can select and use the target grammatical elements of the current content about 
“family life with family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities” accurately, 
authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when 
communicating with others.
a) Being familiar with the current content by listening (to)/watching/reading it a few times 
attentively.
b) Students listen (to)/watch/read the same content, attentively and mindfully, including the use 
of target grammatical chunks presented verbally in context with the help of body language.

===== PDF_PAGE_471 =====
471
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students verbally and automatically repeat simple and meaningful clauses/sentences 
containing target grammatical chunks that they have noticed in the current content that they 
have heard/viewed/read without explicit knowledge of the rules.
d) Students act out physically the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks 
in the current content heard/viewed/read by repeating them several times without knowing, 
analysing, and thinking about their rules.
e) Students see and read the example sentences containing target grammatical chunks provided 
for language awareness carefully.
f) Students gain awareness of clauses/sentences that contain target grammatical chunks that 
are presented for the purpose of raising language awareness.
g) Students recognise the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks when 
they encounter them by seeing and/or hearing them in different contexts.
h) Students use the recognised target grammatical chunks naturally, authentically, and 
automatically in new contextual tasks and activities without analysing their rules.
i) Students produce new and meaningful verbal/written content about the current theme by 
using the target grammatical chunks in meaningful tasks without knowing and analysing their 
rules.
j) Students use the target language chunks authentically, automatically, and naturally in 
communication processes without analysing their rules in meaningful contexts.
ENG.5.4.W1.  Students can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on 
“family life with family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities”.
a) Students relate their pre-existing knowledge and experience used in the initial processes of 
writing-expression skills to the current content by activating them in relation with the current 
content.
b) Students understand what the writing task and its content are in relation to the current 
content correctly by making use of their pre-existing knowledge and experience as guided and 
assigned.
ENG.5.4.W2.  Students can understand the model/example for the writing task about the current content 
on “family life with family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities”.
a) Students understand the components and details of the content in the provided model/
sample which is displayed as a guide, by examining it carefully.
ENG.5.4.W3.  Students can organise a content for the assigned writing task on the current content “family 
life with family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities” based on the 
model/example provided.
a) Students conduct preliminary research for a prepared writing situation according to the 
current content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
b) Students develop a simple draft for a prepared/or unprepared writing task about the current 
content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
c) Students organise and/or produce materials relevant to the content for a prepared/
unprepared writing task, appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level. 
ENG.5.4.W4.  Students can individually construct/form content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “family life with family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities”.
a) Students present appropriate and accurate materials for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task about the current theme according to the assigned writing type, age, and language 
level.

===== PDF_PAGE_472 =====
472
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and rules relevant to the assigned writing 
type for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language chunks accurately and appropriately 
for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task about the current content by selecting them 
according to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
d) Students express important messages in the written current content to the reader accurately 
and appropriately for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
ENG.5.4.W5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information in the new written tasks about 
the “family life with family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities” to 
communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information in the current content or similar information in a different content 
by internalising and selecting it individually and reorganising it as required and meaningfully in 
different contexts.
b) Students exchange information/ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge with others.
ENG.5.4.W6.  Students can reflect on their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to 
the writing-expression process about the current content, “family life with family members’ 
routines; family members’ hobbies and activities” in relation to themselves or others, both 
individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in 
relation to the current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in relation to the 
writing-expression process about the current content with others.
c) Students produce new written products related to the current writing-expression content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities.
ENG.5.4.S1.  Students can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “family 
life with family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities”.
a) Students make connections with the current content by activating their pre-existing 
knowledge and experiences that they have recalled in the listening (to)/watching/reading 
sections previously.
ENG.5.4.S2.  Students can use the model/example for producing verbal content about the current content 
on “family life with family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities”.
a) Students listen (to)/watch/read the model/example for the current content with the help of 
audio/visual/written elements.
ENG.5.4.S3.  Students can organise a new verbal content on “family life with family members’ routines; 
family members’ hobbies and activities” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students recognise what form and type of content is expected and assigned for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations based on audio/visual/written content as provided in the 
model/example.
b) Students organise the content for prepared/unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate 
and accurate way as they have heard/seen/read in the model/example.
c) Students develop a draft for prepared/unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the age 
and language level as presented in the model/sample content.
d) Students organise supplementary audio/visual/written materials for prepared/or unprepared 
speaking situations, appropriate to age and language level, as provided in the model/sample 
content.

===== PDF_PAGE_473 =====
473
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
e) Students organise the information about the current content to be presented for prepared/or 
unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate way as required.
ENG.5.4.S4.  Students can construct a new verbal content on “family life with family members’ routines; 
family members’ hobbies and activities” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students use target pronunciation, vocabulary, language chunks, and forms of discourse 
related to the current content effectively by selecting them accurately and appropriately for 
prepared/unprepared speaking situations.
b) Students present individually prepared content in an accurate and efficient way as presented 
in the model/example for prepared speaking situations clearly, efficiently, and appropriately.
c) Students present individually prepared information in an accurate and efficient way as 
presented in the model/example for unprepared speaking situations.
d) Students express the message about the current content clearly to the reader by using all 
supplementary elements and body language in an appropriate and accurate way in context for 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.5.4.S5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information about the “family life with family 
members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities” to communicate with other 
people.
a) Students use the information presented in the current content by reorganising it appropriately, 
efficiently, individually, and verbally in different contexts.
b) Students engage in appropriate and efficient verbal communication by sharing the 
reconstructed meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.5.4.S6.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
speaking-expression process about the current content, “family life with family members’ 
routines; family members’ hobbies and activities” to communicate with other people in 
relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully in 
relation to the speaking-expression process about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_474 =====
474
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
FAMILY LIFE: 
Sub-Themes: Family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities
Target Vocabulary in Use:
Vocabulary for Family members’ Routines: Nouns: A couple, a role, a task, focus, resting, tidying, pet care, 
organisation. Verbs: To brush, to take care (of), to organise. Adjectives: Everyday, specific.
Pronouns: Hers, his, mine (belongs to me), yours.
Vocabulary for family members’ hobbies and activities:  Nouns: A board game, a beach, a barbecue, a 
bicycle, a camera, a festival, a guitar, a hobby, a holiday, a member, a museum, a photograph, a photo, a tent, 
a party, a computer game, a forest, a scooter, a piano, cooking, camping, cycling, dancing, fishing, playing 
golf, swimming, playing football. Verbs: To have a picnic, to relax, to join, Adjectives: Active, usual.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Present Progressive Tense: (She is brushing her teeth.)
-Present Progressive Tense vs Present Simple Tense: (We are camping in the forest this weekend, but we 
normally stay at home during holidays.)
-Question tags for the Present Progressive Tense: (She is brushing her teeth, isn’t she?)
Functions of the Target Grammatical Structures in use:
-Use of the Present Progressive Tense: Expressing actions or events that are happening at the moment of 
speaking, temporary actions, or planned future actions.
-Use of the Present Progressive Tense vs Present Simple Tense: Contrasting ongoing or temporary actions 
(Present Progressive) with habitual actions, general truths, or permanent states (Present Simple).
-Use of question tags for Present Progressive Tense: Confirming or checking ongoing actions that match 
the tense, tone, or polarity of the statement.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations:  “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”. 
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and  Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage  will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table of contents for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum. 
Target Social Language  in Use: 
We always get on well as a family! 
Can you lend your father a hand washing the car?
Let’s tidy up the house together.
Target Phonological Sounds in Use: 
a, b, c, d, e
Vowels: a: (/ae/, /aeı/, /ə/,  /a:/,  /eɪ/,  /a:/,  /a/,   /ɔː/,  /eə/);  e: (/e/; /i:/, /ə/)
Consonants: b: (/b/), silent /b/); c: (/si/, /k/); d: (/d/)
 *(Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme)

===== PDF_PAGE_475 =====
475
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “family life” and its components such as “family members’ routines; family 
members’ hobbies and activities” is present in almost all languages. People who start to learn a new language 
bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to their new language learning. For instance, a 
lower-secondary school student will know what “family life” and its components such as “family members’ 
routines; family members’ hobbies and activities” means but will not know how to say them in a foreign 
language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in 
their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more easily in a 
foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts:
family members, routines, family members’ routines, hobbies, family members’ hobbies, activities, family 
members’ activities
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will conduct a questionnaire on the daily routines, free-time 
activities, and hobbies of their family members through interviews and present the written results with 
digital resources and/or realia by acting out some of the routines, free-time activities, and hobbies reported 
in the questionnaire. The assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a 
marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “family life” and its components such as “family members’ 
routines; family members’ hobbies and activities”. As they are lower secondary school students in year 5 
(five), they can know what “family life” and its components such as “family members’ routines; family members’ 
hobbies and activities” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people who start to learn 
a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and transfer it to their 
new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these things in a foreign language if 
this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own 
language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a foreign language, in this 
case English.
As they are students in year 5 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “family 
life” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or years. These grammar 
items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning of the year, and they can 
be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current theme, so that the 
new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “family life” and its components such as “family members’ routines; family members’ 
hobbies and activities”. Recalling and practising with relevant vocabulary and grammatical items in English 
that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current 
content on the concept of “family life”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary and 
language chunks from the previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation 
practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much 
they are able to understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in 
the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge 
and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated 
by rubrics throughout these practices.)

===== PDF_PAGE_476 =====
476
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Establishing Links
Students can recall the current (theme) concept of “family life” and its components such as “family members’ 
routines; family members’ hobbies and activities” by remembering their pre-existing background knowledge 
about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with the current activities in the 
current theme in English without translating anything until they start learning the target words in the current 
(new) concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
various materials such as short scene from a film, series, a part from a story, a poster etc. which is appropriate 
to the age, level, and pedagogy could be used before the main teaching/learning flow of the class begins. 
They would give a general idea of the theme. Students are facilitated with the relevant materials through 
various activities.  When they have finished working on it, the teacher asks them in English if they understood 
what was it about. For checking their understanding, she can design several activities. For instance, they 
can write a related word that they know in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways can be tried.
The teacher asks them to wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the digital introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any 
further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme  ‘‘family life” in the classroom, to prepare the students emotionally, 
cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker 
to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This 
could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing 
a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote/a very short story, watching a 
pantomime/cartoon story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require 
any knowledge of English  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4). 
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills  (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around ‘‘family life” and sub-themes “family members’ routines; family 
members’ hobbies and activities” , allowing students to build background knowledge through receptive 
skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful 
and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are 
sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely 
linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development and to 
increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a balanced integration of all the skills, 
where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) and 
respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their vocabulary, 
grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG5.4.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION : Having seen a visual about and having 
guessed the topic of ‘‘family life” during the background recall session, students can have a vision of the 
current theme as a general concept in the current  (new) theme  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V2.2, V3.2, V3.4, V2.4, V4.4, 
V13.2, V16.1, LS1, LS4, LS5,CS2.11, CS2.16.2) .  So, a further concept check with listening/watching for gist 
activities including more guessing games using clues from some pictures, realia, short video clips etc. help 
them prepare for the current theme  (CS2.6, CS2.8).  For each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as 
the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through the theme to cover target 

===== PDF_PAGE_477 =====
477
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole 
theme  (CS2.14).  It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. The 
teacher asks them whether their guesses during the background recall session were correct and also what 
they think the introductory digital story that they are going to watch could be about  (CS2.8).  As they have 
already seen a scene from a film about the theme and the pictures, realia, etc. they can easily answer what 
the current theme will be about and that their guesses were true  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V2.2, V3.2, 
V3.4, V2.4,V4.4, V13.2, V16.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17). 
ENG5.4.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING: The teacher asks the students to 
watch the introductory digital story carefully, recalling the work done with visuals  (the scene from a film, 
pictures, realia, or video clips about the theme shown earlier)   (CS2.11) .  Students watch the introductory 
digital story to consolidate the identification of the ‘‘family life”  in it as a whole  (CS2.13) without stopping the 
video at any point, so that the students can understand the theme holistically  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V2.2,V3.2, 
V3.4, V2.4, V4.4, V13.2, V16.1,LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.14, CS2.16.2). 
ENG5.4.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION : To draw students’ attention 
to the content, some realia brought into the classroom by the teacher could be used  (V2.2, V3.2, V3.4, 
V2.4, V4.4, V13.2, V16.1, LS5).  The teacher could show the corresponding objects to the students when 
the corresponding vocabulary for the main components of the theme ‘‘family life” is mentioned in the 
introductory digital story, without stopping the video while the students watch the story  (CS2.6).  When they 
have watched the whole story, the teacher could show the realia items on the table and ask questions with 
two options  (CS2.5).  As one of the words is from the previous themes, students could hear, understand, 
recognise and learn the  (new) target vocabulary for each main component of the theme easily  (CS2.1).  In 
this way, the teacher could engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the 
components of the theme, and that they have understood each realia item is about one component  (CS2.8).  
Further activities and games can be played at this stage to reinforce the general meaning of the theme 
through its main components  (D1.1, D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4). 
To check whether the students understand the general topic of the theme ‘‘family life” and remember the 
sequence of the scenes of the introductory digital story, the teacher shows an organiser with the mixed 
images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the students to look at the images/pictures of 
the scenes for a while  (CS2.3).  She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs in their seats with the 
mixed paper pictures she/he has already given to the students  (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS4 ).  When the 
pairs have finished sorting the pictures for the scenes of the story, the teacher asks the students to take 
turns or volunteer to sort the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board  (or the pictures on the blackboard)  
(SELS1.2,V11.1, CS2.6, CS2.10).  This will help the students to organise the story as a whole so that they can 
identify the main theme and the components of the theme from their memories  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, V16.3, 
V20.4, CS2.12). 
ENG5.4.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/ W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY : Then 
teacher asks students to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process   (SELS1.3, V3.4) . Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3,V12.1, LS5).  
The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design  (V10.3). 

===== PDF_PAGE_478 =====
478
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.4.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION : To practise pronunciation of the new target words, word 
groups, language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme ‘‘family life” and the words and/
or word groups for the sub-themes “family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities”  the 
teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the whole or some extracts from the introductory digital story 
by noticing how words are pronounced  (V2.2, V3.2, V3.4, V2.4, V4.4, V13.2, V16.1, LS4, LS5, CS2.6) .  She/
He asks them to repeat the word aloud when she/he stops the video for a word and says it. The teacher then 
asks the students to listen and repeat the same words aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to 
the recordings that she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes  (LS2, CS2.16.3) . 
The teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as showing the picture of the target word 
to the students to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the 
recording, and then both  (CS2.8).  To help the students pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks 
them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in 
large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V4.2, V11.1, 
V20.4, LS1, CS2.14). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Practice of pronunciation could be done with different 
forms of TPR, gamification and drama activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words/word groups 
for the sub-themes“family members’ routines; family members’ hobbies and activities” , the students listen  
(CS2.9); then the teacher says the target words/word groups and acts them out, the students repeat after 
her/him  (SELS2.1, CS2.14).  Then the teacher and the students say the target words/word groups and act 
them out together at the same time. Then the teacher says the words/word groups and acts them out. 
These activities can be done through the actions for the sub-themes activities”   (D2.3, D2.5,V2.2, V3.2, 
V3.4, V2.4, V4.4, V13.2, V16.1, LS5) As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, 
sadly, angrily, etc. using different tones of voice  (SELS2.3, CS2.8, CS2.11).  They also practise for the target 
social language chunks using the same or similar techniques. During the repetitions, they point to relevant 
pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom  (CS2.12).  Some action sequences 
are also created in which the students can practise the social language in a fun way by repeating, pointing, 
miming, and acting out in several games  (SELS2.1, V7.2, LS5,  LS9). The teacher facilitates some activities 
with dialogues and games in which students can practice the target pronunciation by selecting and using 
them accurately, naturally, and authentically  (CS3.1).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, 
such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several 
sound drills  (SELS2.2).  The target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are 
practised through them  (CS2.13).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.5, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4).  
ENG5.4.R1
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS: The teacher facilitates reading and writing 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise 
techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the 
theme in various forms and amounts. Reading is done in two ways in the theme by using the written version 
of the introductory digital story and additional reading texts in reading sections of the instructional material 
to be used  (V3.2, LS2, LS4) .  Various reading styles including silent reading, speed reading, jigsaw reading 
and basic reading techniques including skimming, scanning, and reading for details during pre-reading, 
while-reading and post-reading phases are used in the theme  (V3.4, LS1, CS2.3, CS2.6) . The ultimate aim 
of reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills and 
critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend and talk/write about the content in a meaningful and 
communicative way  (V3.3, V7.2, LS5, CS3.3). For the initial stage of reading, the teacher asks the students 
to look at the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) 
surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory story or a new text in the reading section of 

===== PDF_PAGE_479 =====
479
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the conceptual meanings they already have about 
the theme  (CS2.8).  At this stage, the teacher could ask the students to read the title of the theme and ask 
the students which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title  (SELS1.1, 
CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new words or the words they do not know. 
She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity by using the words they know and that there is time 
to work on the new words of the new theme later  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, CS2.10, CS2.12). 
ENG5.4.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING : Students go on with a scanning activity to find 
out the most important details of the introductory digital story and/or a new text in the reading section which 
is organised to help students to know more about the reading content  (CS2.6, CS2.7).  In this way they could 
be able to recognise the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or 
tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned  (quickly read) in the story  (CS2.4).  By doing so, they 
will be able to understand the story/text in general using the main elements  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, V3.4, LS1). 
ENG5.4.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Then the teacher asks the students to do a jigsaw reading activity, 
so she/he shows the written version of the introductory digital story or the text in the reading section on 
the blackboard/Smart Board  (or in any other teaching material).  She/He asks the students to work in pairs 
to share the text  (SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the text and the second peer reads the other 
half of the text in a given time  (CS2.6).  They are then asked to share what they have understood from their 
part with their peer, also in a given time. In this way, they talk about the whole story after reading it silently, 
in the jigsaw reading style  (D2.4, D3.6, V3.4, V4.2, V16.2, LS1, CS2.8, CS2.9).  Some speed-reading activities 
can be used to develop students’ reading and comprehension skills. These activities can be evaluated as 
explained in the item  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After 
sharing their parts, students proceed with the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical 
chunks, and semantic meaning relatively with the help of the teacher  (CS2.14).  For dealing with the semantic 
meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, 
open- ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1).  From display to communicative open-ended, various 
types of questions are used to understand the meaning of the text  (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, CS2.6).  During this 
process students work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings  (D3.2, D3.7, V3.3, 
V7.2, V20.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 
ENG5.4.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process  (SELS1.3).  Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design  (D 2.3, D3.5, V4.2, V6.2, 
V10.3, V12.1, LS1 ). 
ENG5.4.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY : At this stage, students remember what the 
theme is about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/ 
watching, and pre-reading sessions  (SELS1.1).  As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal with the 
main components and target vocabulary of the theme  (V3.2, LS1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_480 =====
480
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY : A scanning activity to find out the main details of the 
introductory digital story  (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help students to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some important pictures, words or events about the main components 
of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen 
and scanned  (quickly read) in the story. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general 
by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items  (D3.2, D3.6, LS1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7)Then the students read the written version of the digital story again silently,  
(or the reading text in the reading section), to check whether they know any of the target vocabulary items 
about the theme  (V16.3, CS2.8). They underline the words whose meaning they do not know while reading 
silently  (CS2.17).  Students say these words when they finish reading and the teacher writes these words 
on the Smart Board/blackboard/ white board as they say them. The teacher writes only the target words on 
the Smart Board/blackboard as active words that the students have said. She/He quickly deals with the non-
target passive vocabulary items by using pictures, mimics, gestures, imitations, examples, etc. But she/he 
takes time to facilitate the teaching of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.2, V3.3, V3.4, LS2, LS4,CS2.4, CS2.5, 
CS2.7). 
To introduce and practise the meanings of the target vocabulary related to the theme, that the students do 
not know, the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story  (or the video of the reading text 
if there is one) again. From the beginning, whenever a target item is mentioned, the teacher stops the video 
and asks several questions in the form of two options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that 
they already know  (V2.2, V3.2, V3.4, V2.4, V4.4, V13.2, V16.1, LS5, CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what they 
are, the students hear the English equivalents of the words for the theme and they answer as a whole class 
in chorus. In this way, they are introduced to the meanings of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6,D3.7, CS2.10).  This 
is conducted in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (SELS2.1)  
(7),  (8), and  (9) in the section1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.   (V3.3, V3.4, 
V16.3, LS1, LS2, LS4).  After having watched the introductory digital story, the teacher shows some pictures 
for the sub-themes, on the walls as clues and says the words aloud several times in sentences by pointing 
to the pictures and the students repeat after her/him  (D2.3, V2.2, V3.2, V3.4, V2.4, V4.4, V13.2, V16.1,LS5, 
CS2.6, CS2.11).  In this way, the main vocabulary items of the theme are introduced to the students in English 
as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY : The teacher can prepare an activity using the Web 2.0 
programme with images/pictures, and symbolic images for some categories about the components of 
the theme ’’family life ‘’. She/He also prepares mixed images/pictures for target vocabulary items for the 
activities which can be done in relation to the components. She/He asks the students to look at the mixed 
pile of images/pictures of the main components of the theme on the Smart Board screen and scan them for 
a while to remember them  (V2.2, V3.2, V3.4, V2.4, V4.4, V13.2, V16.1, LS5, CS2.4). She/He explains to the 
students that the items will be placed under the correct category, but first she/he gives the students the 
cut-out pictures of the activities and a large sheet of paper with the categories written on it and the cut-out 
pictures will be placed under each category correctly   (V3.3, L2, LS4, CS2.5) . The teacher asks them to 
work in pairs and place the cut-out pictures in the right category and ask each other some questions about 
the theme  (D3.2, D3.8, SELS2.2,V2.2, V3.2, V3.4, V2.4, V4.4, V13.2, V16.1, LS5). When the students have 
finished working with the cut-out pictures and asking and answering questions about them, the teacher 
asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures 
under the right category on the screen  (SELS1.2, V3.4, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures 
that are relevant to the main concept and its components are consolidated through categorisation. This 
activity can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. The 
teacher asks the students to copy the words next to the pictures they have pasted or drawn in their picture 
dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with their peers and check each 
other’s spelling  (D3.2, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS9). To consolidate the meaning, selection, 
and use of the new target vocabulary items, the teacher could organise activities and tasks using pictures, 

===== PDF_PAGE_481 =====
481
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
flashcards, sounds, realia, and any other materials to play games such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, 
Odd One out, Wordscapes, Scrabble, Pictionary, Letter Scramble, Acronyms, Charades etc. Games could be 
adapted according to the teacher’s objectives  (pronunciation, spelling, meaning, selection, use etc.), age, 
interests and language level of the students  (CS2.13).  Students can be asked to create their own games 
to use the target vocabulary items in context  (D2.5, D.3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V4.2, V4.4, V2.2, V3.2,V3.4, 
V2.4, V4.4, V13.2, V16.1, LS5, LS9, CS2.20). Students’ learning can be checked as described in items  (3), and  
(4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG5.4.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS : To draw the students’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme ’’family life ‘’’, the introductory digital story or an extract from it played so that the 
students can notice the target language chunks  (D3.2, CS2.2).  While watching the introductory digital story, 
the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by 
showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the students to do the same  (V3.2, LS2, CS2.14). She could 
hold up large pictures corresponding to the chunks when they are mentioned in the digital story to draw the 
students’ attention. The sentences with the target chunks are also written and placed on the Smart Board/
blackboard/ whiteboard. The teacher also points to these sentences while pointing to the scenes in the story 
where they appear. There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Students can 
automatically and naturally identify the use of the target language chunks in the current context created in 
the introductory digital story without working on any rules or structures  (SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, 
CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  To check the students’ identification of the target language chunks, after the students 
have finished watching the introductory digital story, the teacher asks them to read the sentences with the 
target language chunks written by the teacher on the Smart Board /blackboard/whiteboard and asks them 
to find the same or similar sentences in the written version of the introductory digital story or another text 
that is shown on the Smart Board  (D3.2, SELS3.2, V3.3). She/He also asks them to find the same or similar 
sentences with these chunks which are given in different types of tables prepared by the teacher  (CS2.7).  
These tables do not include any explanations of grammatical rules, explanations, or formulas, and they only 
contain example sentences with target chunks in which important words with the target grammar are written 
in bold or different colours to attract students’ attention. The teacher asks them to look at the words in bold 
or in different colours and asks students to examine them  (CS2.9).  Then the teacher asks the students 
to copy these sentences with target chunks written in bold or different colours into their notebooks. The 
teacher asks the students to make very similar sentences using the target words and asks them to share their 
sentences with each other in pairs, and then with the class   (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, D3.2, V4.2, CS2.13,CS2.14, 
CS2.16.1, CS2.16.2)Both the teacher and the class members give feedback to the students as they say their 
sentences  (CS2.19).  The teacher gives all students a checklist with simple symbols to evaluate each other’s 
work as explained in the items  (5) and  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.  (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3). 
 
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate students’ further practice with the target 
language chunks in the theme ’’ family life ‘’, the teacher shows some other sentences with these chunks in 
another context such as a short story, a short paragraph, and a short dialogue etc. and asks students to find 
the sentences with the target chunks in them and asks if they understand them  (SELS3.2, V2.2, V3.2, V3.4, 
V2.4, V4.4, V13.2, V16.1, LS5,CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.8) .  She/He gives some written activities and exercises to 
practise the target chunks in context. She/He also facilitates more fun activities and as described in items  (5),  
(8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. To consolidate 
the target language chunks, the teacher organises different fun activity and game bundles that the students 
can practise and consolidate them  (CS2.13) where their learning can be checked as described in item  (10) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (D2.5, V4.4). 

===== PDF_PAGE_482 =====
482
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.4.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION : Practising through writing: Writing activities 
help students  to  produce  and  display  meaningful  written  language  for  their  personal  expression  and 
communication with others, by using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and 
the social language in this theme, as in other themes.  (V2.2, V3.2, V3.4, V2.4, V4.4, V13.2, V16.1, LS5). 
ENG5.4.W2.
RECOGNISING THE MODEL:  Initially, students produce very limited and short pieces of writing such as 
sentences to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme ’’family life ‘’. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat or simply explain what they hear and 
see in context and what they are asked to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy to be able 
to notice significant points and elements in it  (SELS3.1).  While copying a short model writing, they become 
aware of the aspects such as the use of words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on  (D3.1, 
V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). 
ENG5.4.W3.
CREATING THE WRITING CONTENT: Controlled writing of words and sentences turns to short paragraphs in 
a process writing manner with the support of the teacher’s feedback in the theme. This process is expanded 
and supported by several practical activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/ 
pantomime/video stories, dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, 
etc. to practise further by writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (D1.3, D3.1, SELS3.2,V3.4, V4.4, V7.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG5.4. W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
projects, scripts for plays, diaries/journals, blogs, very short film scenarios, etc. to express their ideas, 
thoughts, and feelings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be contextual, practical, 
authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests and language level.   (V3.4, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, 
LS9). 
ENG5.4.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students  interact  and  communicate 
with peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme in their writing  (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V2.2, V3.2, 
V3.4, V2.4, V4.4, V13.2, V16.1,LS5, LS9,CS2.20) AI- based technologies can be used for various activities, 
giving students access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school 
and at home in a variety of ways  (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3,V7.2, LS2, CS2.20)These activities are evaluated 
as described in items  (11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles  for  the  Implementation  of  the  English  
Curriculum.
ENG5.4.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 

===== PDF_PAGE_483 =====
483
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
about them  (D1.5, SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design.   (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, 
V20.4, LS1)
ENG5.4.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING: The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from the 
first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance students’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language expressions of the theme  (V2.2, 
V3.2, V3.4, V2.4,V4.4, V13.2, V16.1, LS5). 
ENG5.4.S2
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL: In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, students 
recognise how the language with the target language items is used  (CS2.6).  They practise the language in a 
controlled way, by telling, repeating, explaining what they hear and see in the context  (D1.3, D3.2, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.4). 
ENG5.4.S3
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT : In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues etc. as new opportunities for the students to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc  (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13). 
ENG5.4.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS:  Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products 
related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact 
with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V2.2, V3.2, V3.4, V2.4, 
V4.4, V13.2, V16.1, LS5,CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students 
access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home 
through recordings  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, V7.2, LS2, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG5.4.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Students communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related 
to the theme ‘’’family life ‘’’ in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.3, CS2.20).  Picture strip 
stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision  (V3.4, V4.2, V12.1, 
LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and 
appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. Storification and gamification techniques are 
actively and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme. Students 
are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, 
speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people 
in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar in use, and 
the social language for the theme and its components such as “family members’ routines; family members’ 
hobbies and activities”  (V2.2, V3.2, V3.4, V2.4, V4.4,V13.2, V16.1, LS4, LS5, CS3.1, CS2.20) .  AI-based 
technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They can also 
produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.3, V7.2, 

===== PDF_PAGE_484 =====
484
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items  (7),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use and practise by 
communicating with others.
ENG5.4.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole speaking-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and 
take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different activities 
for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design.  (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, LS1). 
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To describe family members’ hobbies and routines in English by using visuals and sentences in 
the target language.
Activity 1: “A Family Poster”
Before the lesson, the teacher tells students to bring hobby-themed magazine cut-outs to use in the activity. 
The teacher asks students to work in small groups to create a family poster. Posters should include short 
descriptions of the family members. Students also draw pictures or paste magazine cut-outs that represent 
the hobbies and write sentences describing the hobbies on the poster. The teacher encourages students to 
elaborate on why their family member enjoys the hobby and when/how often they do it. The teacher allows 
students to organise their posters freely. She/He encourages creativity and asks students to write multiple 
sentences with connecting words. Students display the completed projects around the classroom on walls, 
desks, or boards. Students walk around the room in small groups, observing their classmates’ work and 
asking questions. The teacher provides sticky notes for students to leave positive feedback or comments. 
Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To describe family members’ hobbies and routines in English by using visuals and sentences in 
the target language.
Activity 1: “A Family Poster”
Before the lesson the teacher tells students to bring hobby-themed magazine cut-outs to use in the activity. 
The teacher asks students to work in small groups to create a family poster. Posters should include short 
descriptions of the family members. The teacher provides a template with guided sections to fill in: (“This 
is my __ mom, dad, sister”, “They like to __ cook/ play …”). Students also draw pictures or paste magazine 
cutouts that represent the hobbies and write sentences describing the hobbies on the poster. The teacher 
provides a word bank with key vocabulary and sentence starters (e.g., “My __ likes to __ because __”). The 
teacher allows students to organise their posters freely. She/He encourages creativity. Students display 
the completed projects around the classroom on walls, desks, or boards. Students walk around the room in 
small groups, observing and reading their classmates’ work. The teacher provides sticky notes for students 
to leave positive feedback or comments . Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_485 =====
485
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 5: LIFE IN THE NEIGHBOURHOOD & CITY
Sub-themes: Places for recreation and attractions in 
the neighbourhood and city; different types of houses
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in the neighbourhood and city” 
and covers the sub-themes of “places for recreation and attractions in the 
neighbourhood and city ; different types of houses”. These components (sub-
themes) are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised 
use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and 
social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed 
to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within 
and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1 Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2 Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, V14. Respect, V16. 
Responsibility, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Physical Education and Sports, Visual Arts, 
Music, Information Technologies and Software

===== PDF_PAGE_486 =====
486
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information 
Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. 
Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based 
Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring 
Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. 
Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. 
Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing 
Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical 
Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_487 =====
487
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 5 is structured based on semi-holistic/semi-inductive approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.5.5.L1.  Students can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “life in the neighbourhood and city with places for recreation and attractions in the 
neighbourhood and city ; different types of houses” carefully.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience related to the current theme 
and content by recalling their background knowledge imaginatively in her/his own language 
without speaking it.
b) Students identify significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge and 
experiences and the clues to the current content without translation.
c) Students make predictions about the current content on “life in the neighbourhood and city” 
by using the relationships that they recognised accurately by looking at the provided realia, 
pictures, and context.
d) Students make predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/visual 
elements in relation to the current theme.
ENG.5.5.L2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “life in the neighbourhood 
and city with places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and city ; different 
types of houses” together through significant details and main components while listening/
watching it.
a) Students comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole.
b) Students recognise the significant details and components within the whole current content 
by listening (to) and watching it again in a careful manner.
ENG.5.5.L3.  Students can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “life in the 
neighbourhood and city with places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and 
city ; different types of houses” through significant details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Students check any initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals surrounding the current 
content.
b) Students make important and necessary classifications in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
c) Students make important and necessary comparisons in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content with the help of classifications and comparisons made 
earlier.
e) Students make significant inferences that contribute to the understanding of the meaning of 
the generally perceived current content.
f) Students construct the meaning of the current content in detail through the classifications/
comparisons/inferences made earlier in relation to it.
g) Students internalise the current content in an individualised and appropriate way according to 
age and language level.
ENG.5.5.L4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully 
about the whole listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current 
content on “life in the neighbourhood and city with places for recreation and attractions in the 
neighbourhood and city ; different types of houses”.

===== PDF_PAGE_488 =====
488
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content.
b) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content by sharing them with others.
ENG.5.5.P1.  Students can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content 
about “life in the neighbourhood and city with places for recreation and attractions in the 
neighbourhood and city ; different types of houses” accurately, authentically, and naturally 
through spontaneous decision-making processes and use it in an appropriate and effective 
way when communicating with others.
a) Listening to the current content by paying attention to the target phonological aspects 
including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Students reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source 
several times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Students recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts.
d) Students recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they 
are heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Students use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.5.5.R1.  Students can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content 
on “life in the neighbourhood and city with places for recreation and attractions in the 
neighbourhood and city ; different types of houses”. 
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content efficiently.
b) Students recognise significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Students making significant preliminary predictions about the current content based on 
recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring the audio-visual 
clues surrounding it.
ENG.5.5.R2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “life in the neighbourhood and 
city with places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and city ; different types 
of houses” through skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading the 
content very quickly.
a) Students review the current content by looking at the surrounding audio/visual materials to 
identify what it is about in general through skimming.
b) Students read the current content to scan the major components silently and quickly with the 
help of the clues provided. 
c) Students carefully read the current content silently and carefully to find significant details and 
components belonging to the theme.
ENG.5.5.R3.  Students can make meaning of / derive meaning from the current content about “life in the 
neighbourhood and city with places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and 
city ; different types of houses” by reading it carefully.

===== PDF_PAGE_489 =====
489
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students carefully check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial and detailed 
predictions that are made earlier. 
b) Students classify the significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
c) Students compare significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships within the current 
content that contribute to the perception of the content in a meaningful way.
e) Students make meaningful inferences from the information in the current content by 
examining it carefully.
f) Students internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to age and language level.
ENG.5.5.R4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “life in the neighbourhood and 
city with places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and city ; different types 
of houses” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have 
been carefully examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process.
b) Students convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been carefully 
examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing 
them with others.
c) Students produce new products related to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities. 
ENG.5.5.V1.  Students can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “life in the 
neighbourhood and city with places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and 
city ; different types of houses” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and 
use it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Students guess the main topic of the current content from the audio/visual/written elements 
(e.g. sound, voices, scenes, written words) in the contextual material by listening (to)/watching/
reading it several times for recognition.
b) Students recognise sub-themes/key components of the target words to which they belong in 
the current content by scanning.
c) Students recognise the target words related to the main components of the current content 
with the help of the audio/visual/written elements and other clues.
d) Repeating aloud the relevant target key components and target vocabulary in the current 
content with the whole class, in groups, and then individually together with or after listening 
(to)/watching/reading the source material.
e) Students recognise the use of target words and expressions in the current content by making 
various guesses with the help of supplementary elements.
f) Students make context-appropriate selections automatically by associating target words 
with their pre-existing conceptual meanings in the mind without analysing their contextual 
meaning in detail. 
g) Students use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts by being aware of their differences when communicating with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_490 =====
490
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.5.5.G1.  Students can select and use the target grammatical elements of the current content about “life 
in the neighbourhood and city with places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood 
and city ; different types of houses” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally 
and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Being familiar with the current content by listening (to)/watching/reading it a few times 
attentively.
b) Students listen (to)/watch/read the same content, attentively and mindfully, including the use 
of target grammatical chunks presented verbally in context with the help of body language.
c) Students verbally and automatically repeat simple and meaningful clauses/sentences 
containing target grammatical chunks that they have noticed in the current content that they 
have heard/viewed/read without explicit knowledge of the rules.
d) Students act out physically the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks 
in the current content heard/viewed/read by repeating them several times without knowing, 
analysing, and thinking about their rules.
e) Students see and read the example sentences containing target grammatical chunks provided 
for language awareness carefully.
f) Students gain awareness of clauses/sentences that contain target grammatical chunks that 
are presented for the purpose of raising language awareness.
g) Students recognise the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks when 
they encounter them by seeing and/or hearing them in different contexts.
h) Students use the recognised target grammatical chunks naturally, authentically, and 
automatically in new contextual tasks and activities without analysing their rules.
i) Students produce new and meaningful verbal/written content about the current theme by 
using the target grammatical chunks in meaningful tasks without knowing and analysing their 
rules.
j) Students use the target language chunks authentically, automatically, and naturally in 
communication processes without analysing their rules in meaningful contexts.
ENG.5.5.W1.  Students can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “life 
in the neighbourhood and city with places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood 
and city ; different types of houses”.
a) Students relate their pre-existing knowledge and experience used in the initial processes of 
writing-expression skills to the current content by activating them in relation with the current 
content.
b) Students understand what the writing task and its content are in relation to the current 
content correctly by making use of their pre-existing knowledge and experience as guided and 
assigned.
ENG.5.5.W2.  Students can understand the model/example for the writing task about the current content 
on “life in the neighbourhood and city with places for recreation and attractions in the 
neighbourhood and city ; different types of houses”.
a) Students understand the components and details of the content in the provided model/sample 
which is displayed as a guide, by examining it carefully.
ENG.5.5.W3.  Students can organise a content for the assigned writing task on the current content “life in 
the neighbourhood and city with places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood 
and city ; different types of houses” based on the model/example provided.
a) Students conduct preliminary research for a prepared writing situation according to the 
current content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_491 =====
491
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students develop a simple draft for a prepared/or unprepared writing task about the current 
content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
c) Students organise and/or produce materials relevant to the content for a prepared/
unprepared writing task, appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level. 
ENG.5.5.W4.  Students can individually construct/form content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “life in the neighbourhood and city with places for recreation and attractions in the 
neighbourhood and city ; different types of houses”.
a) Students present appropriate and accurate materials for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task about the current theme according to the assigned writing type, age, and language 
level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and rules relevant to the assigned writing 
type for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language chunks accurately and appropriately 
for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task about the current content by selecting them 
according to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
d) Students express important messages in the written current content to the reader accurately 
and appropriately for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
ENG.5.5.W5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information in the new written tasks about 
the “life in the neighbourhood and city with places for recreation and attractions in the 
neighbourhood and city ; different types of houses” to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information in the current content or similar information in a different content 
by internalising and selecting it individually and reorganising it as required and meaningfully in 
different contexts.
b) Students exchange information/ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge meaningfully with others.
ENG.5.5.W6.  Students can reflect on their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “life in the neighbourhood and city 
with places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and city ; different types of 
houses” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in 
relation to the current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in relation to the 
writing-expression process about the current content with others.
c) Students produce new written products related to the current writing-expression content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities.
ENG.5.5.S1.  Students can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “life in 
the neighbourhood and city with places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood 
and city ; different types of houses”.
a) Students make connections with the current content by activating their pre-existing 
knowledge and experiences that they have recalled in the listening (to)/watching/reading 
sections previously.
ENG.5.5.S2.  Students can use the model/example for producing verbal content about the current content 
on “life in the neighbourhood and city with places for recreation and attractions in the 
neighbourhood and city ;different types of houses”.
a) Students listen (to)/watch/read the model/example for the current content with the help of 
audio/visual/written elements.

===== PDF_PAGE_492 =====
492
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.5.5.S3.  Students can organise a new verbal content on “life in the neighbourhood and city with places 
for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and city ; different types of houses” by 
speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students recognise what form and type of content is expected and assigned for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations based on audio/visual/written content as provided in the 
model/example.
b) Students organise the content for prepared/unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate 
and accurate way as they have heard/seen/read in the model/example.
c) Students develop a draft for prepared/unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the 
age and language level as presented in the model/sample content.
d) Students organise supplementary audio/visual/written materials for prepared/or unprepared 
speaking situations, appropriate to age and language level, as provided in the model/sample 
content.
e) Students organise the information about the current content to be presented for prepared/or 
unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate way as required.
ENG.5.5.S4.  Students can construct a new verbal content on “life in the neighbourhood and city with places 
for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and city ; different types of houses” by 
speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students use target pronunciation, vocabulary, language chunks, and forms of discourse 
related to the current content effectively by selecting them accurately and appropriately for 
prepared/unprepared speaking situations.
b) Students present individually prepared content in an accurate and efficient way as presented 
in the model/example for prepared speaking situations clearly, efficiently, and appropriately.
c) Students present individually prepared information in an accurate and efficient way as 
presented in the model/example for unprepared speaking situations.
d) Students express the message about the current content clearly to the reader by using all 
supplementary elements and body language in an appropriate and accurate way in context for 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.5.5.S5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information about the “life in the neighbourhood 
and city with places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and city ; different 
types of houses” to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information presented in the current content by reorganising it appropriately, 
efficiently, individually, and verbally in different contexts.
b) Students engage in appropriate and efficient verbal communication by sharing the 
reconstructed meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.5.5.S6.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
speaking-expression process about the current content, “life in the neighbourhood and city 
with places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and city ; different types 
of houses” to communicate with other people in relation to themselves or others, both 
individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully in 
relation to the speaking-expression process about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_493 =====
493
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN THE NEIGHBOURHOOD & CITY:  
Sub-Themes: Places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and city different types of houses.
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary)
Vocabulary for places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and city: Nouns: A corner, a 
square, a gym, a coast, a street fair, a hall, a sports centre, an art gallery, a shop (store-AmE), a castle, a 
tower, a site, a museum, a mosque, a town. Verbs: To cycle, to fish, to jump, to guide, to joke, to experience, 
to attend.    Adjectives: Social, ancient, close, famous, crowded, quiet, modern, traditional, peaceful, brand-
new, local. Adverbs: Best, easily. Phrases: To take a tour, to attend an event, to take a photograph, to hire (a 
bike) (rent-AmE).
Vocabulary for different types of houses and furniture and kitchen utensils: Nouns: A flat (apartment AmE), 
a kitchen, a bathroom, a bedroom, a sitting room (a living room-AmE),  a dining room, a toilet, a garden, a 
garage), a balcony, a terrace, a corridor (hallway-AmE), a floor, a lift ( elevator-AmE), a roof, a bookcase, a 
sofa, an armchair, a bed, a cupboard, a fridge, an oven  (a stove-AmE), a lamp, a knife, a spoon, a fork, a plate, 
a wardrobe, a dishwasher, a shelf, ground. Verbs: To repair. Adjectives: Wide, wooden, metal, plastic, bright, 
light, comfortable, bottom, top, glass, steel, handmade. Adverbs: Inside, outside.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Comparatives of adjectives (regular-irregular): (The sofa is more comfortable than the armchair).
-Possessive ’s: (This is Anna’s bicycle; she uses it every day.)
-Present Simple Tense: (We cycle to the park every Saturday.)
-There is/are: (There are many paintings in the art gallery. There is a wide sofa in the living room.)
Functions of the Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of “Comparatives of Adjectives (regular-irregular)”: Expressing comparisons between two people, 
objects, or ideas.
-Use of “Possessive ‘s”: Indicating ownership or relationship.
-Use of the Present Simple Tense: Expressing habitual actions, general truths, and permanent states.
-Use of “There is/There are”: Indicating existence or location.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”. 
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and  Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage  will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table of contents for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum. 
Target Social Language in Use: 
Where is the nearest library?
Our kitchen is the heart of our house! 
Our new flat was ready to move into! (Our new flat was move-in-ready! AmE.) 
Target Phonological Sounds in Use: 
f, g, h, i, j, k,
Vowel: i: i (/aı/, /ı/, /i:/)
Consonants:   f:  (/f/);  g: (/g/, /dʒ/);  h: (/h/); j (/dʒeɪ/, /dʒ/);  k: (/k/); 
*Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_494 =====
494
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “life in the neighbourhood and city” and its components such as “places 
for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and city; different types of houses” is present in almost 
all languages. People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and 
transfer it to their new language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what 
“life in the neighbourhood and city” and its components such as “places for recreation and attractions in the 
neighbourhood and city;  different types of houses” means but will not know how to say them in a foreign 
language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in 
their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more easily in a 
foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts:
recreation, attractions, places for recreation, places for attractions,  neighbourhood, city, different types of 
houses, places for recreation and  attractions in the neighbourhood and city.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will search the Internet for the types of the houses that they have 
learnt about in the theme so as to collect more information about them. Students will create a dream house 
for themselves, drawing it by hand or using pictures and/or digital sources. Then they will present it to the 
class. The assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “life in the neighbourhood and city” and its components 
such as “places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and city different types of houses”. As 
they are lower secondary school students in year 5 (five), they can know what “life in the neighbourhood 
and city” and its components such as “places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and city 
different types of houses” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people who start to learn 
a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and transfer it to their 
new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these things in a foreign language if 
this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own 
language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a foreign language, in this case 
English.
As they are students in year 5 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary such 
as “What is it? It is a shop. Where is it? It is in the city.” about “life in the neighbourhood and city” and also 
some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or years. These grammar items and 
vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning of the year, and they can be used 
as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current theme, so that the new 
grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about the “life in the neighbourhood and city” and its components such as “places for recreation and 
attractions in the neighbourhood and city ;  different types of houses”. Recalling and practising with relevant 
vocabulary and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as 
a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “life in the neighbourhood and city”. 
Therefore, a game can be played to revise all vocabulary and language chunks from the previous themes 
in previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance 
can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to understand and use 
the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the current theme. It can be 
decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new 

===== PDF_PAGE_495 =====
495
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics throughout 
these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students can recall the current (theme) concept of “life in the neighbourhood and city” and its components 
such as “places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and city; different types of houses” by 
remembering their pre-existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their 
own language to make links with the current activities in the current theme in English without translating 
anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
various materials such as short scene from a film, series, a part from a story, a poster etc. which is appropriate 
to the age, level, and pedagogy could be used before the main teaching/learning flow of the class begins. 
They would give a general idea of the theme. Students are facilitated with the relevant materials through 
various activities.  When they have finished working on it, the teacher asks them in English if they understood 
what was it about. For checking their understanding, she can design several activities. For instance, they 
can write a related word that they know in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways can be tried.
The teacher asks them to wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the digital introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any 
further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme  ‘“life in the neighbourhood and city” in the classroom, to prepare the 
students emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be 
done as an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for 
their well-being. This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/
chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote/a very short 
story, watching a pantomime/cartoon story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and 
does not require any knowledge of English  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4). 
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills  (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around “life in the neighbourhood and city”and sub-themes “places for 
recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and city ; different types of houses” , allowing students to 
build background knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the 
theme. They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning 
outcomes of the theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning 
practices, they are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to 
promote language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by 
a balanced integration of all the skills, where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG5.5.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: Having seen a visual about and having guessed 
the topic of “life in the neighbourhood and city”during the background recall session, students can have a 
vision of the current theme as a general concept in the current  (new) theme  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V1.1,V5.2, V8.4, 
V10.2, V14.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.11, CS2.16.2)So, a further concept check with listening/watching for 
gist activities including more guessing games using clues from some pictures, realia, short video clips etc. 
help them prepare for the current theme  (CS2.6, CS2.8).  For each theme, a digitally constructed story is 

===== PDF_PAGE_496 =====
496
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through the theme to cover 
target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole 
theme  (CS2.14).  It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. The 
teacher asks them whether their guesses during the background recall session were correct and also what 
they think the introductory digital story that they are going to watch could be about  (CS2.8).  As they have 
already seen a scene from a film about the theme and the pictures, realia, etc. they can easily answer what 
the current theme will be about and that their guesses were true  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V1.1, V5.2, 
V8.4,V10.2, V14.1, V20.4, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17)
ENG5.5.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING: The teacher asks the students to 
watch the introductory digital story carefully, recalling the work done with visuals  (the scene from a film, 
pictures, realia, or video clips about the theme shown earlier)   (CS2.11 ).  Students watch the introductory 
digital story to consolidate the identification of the “life in the neighbourhood and city”in it as a whole   (CS2.13) 
without stopping the video at any point, so that the students can understand the theme holistically   (D3.2, 
SELS1.1, V3.3, V3.4, V1.1, V5.2,V8.4, V10.2, V14.1, V20.4, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.14, CS2.16.2). 
ENG5.5.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw students’ attention to the 
content, some realia brought into the classroom by the teacher could be used  (V1.1, V5.2, V8.4, V10.2, V14.1, 
V20.4, LS5).  The teacher could show the corresponding objects to the students when the corresponding 
vocabulary for the main components of the theme “life in the neighbourhood and city” is mentioned in the 
introductory digital story, without stopping the video while the students watch the story  (CS2.6).  When they 
have watched the whole story, the teacher could show the realia items on the table and ask questions with 
two options  (CS2.5).  As one of the words is from the previous themes, students could hear, understand, 
recognise and learn the  (new) target vocabulary for each main component of the theme easily  (CS2.1).  In 
this way, the teacher could engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the 
components of the theme, and that they have understood each realia item is about one component  (CS2.8).  
Further activities and games can be played at this stage to reinforce the general meaning of the theme 
through its main components  (D1.1, D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4). 
To check whether the students understand the general topic of the theme “life in the neighbourhood and 
city” and remember the sequence of the scenes of the introductory digital story, the teacher shows an 
organiser with the mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the students to look at 
the images/pictures of the scenes for a while  (CS2.3).  She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs 
in their seats with the mixed paper pictures she/he has already given to the students  (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, 
LS1, LS4).  When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for the scenes of the story, the teacher asks the 
students to take turns or volunteer to sort the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board  (or the pictures on 
the blackboard)  (SELS1.2, V11.1 , CS2.6, CS2.10).  This will help the students to organise the story as a whole 
so that they can identify the main theme and the components of the theme from their memories  (D1.2, D1.6, 
D2.3, V16.3, V20.4, CS2.12). 
ENG5.5.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/ W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY : The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process   (SELS1.3, V3.4) . Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  ( CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3,V12.1, LS5).  
The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design  (V10.3). 

===== PDF_PAGE_497 =====
497
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.5.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION : To practise pronunciation of the new target words, word 
groups, language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “life in the neighbourhood and 
city” and the words and/or word groups for the sub-themes topics “places for recreation and attractions in 
the neighbourhood and city ; different types of houses”, the teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch 
the whole or some extracts from the introductory digital story by noticing how words are pronounced  (V1.1,
V5.2, V8.4, V10.2, V14.1, V20.4, LS4, LS5, CS2.6).  She/He asks them to repeat the word aloud when she/
he stops the video for a word and says it. The teacher then asks the students to listen and repeat the 
same words aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to the recordings that she/he has prepared 
beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes  (LS2, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer variations with some 
techniques such as showing the picture of the target word to the students to say the word or pointing to 
the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the recording, and then both  (CS2.8).  To help the 
students pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few 
times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then 
again as volunteers  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V4.2, V11.1, V20.4, LS1, CS2.14). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Practice of pronunciation could be done with different 
forms of TPR, gamification and drama activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words/word groups for 
the sub-themes topics “places for recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and city ; different types 
of houses”,the students listen  (CS2.9); then the teacher says the target words/word groups and acts them 
out, the students repeat after her/him  (SELS2.1, CS2.14).  Then the teacher and the students say the target 
words/word groups and act them out together at the same time. Then the teacher says the words/word 
groups and acts them out. These activities can be done through the actions for the sub-themes houses”  
(D2.3, D2.5, V1.1, V5.2, V8.4, V10.2, V14.1, V20.4, LS5) . As a variation, they can also repeat the words after 
the teacher happily, sadly, angrily, etc. using different tones of voice  (SELS2.3, CS2.8, CS2.11).  They also 
practise for the target social language chunks using the same or similar techniques. During the repetitions, 
they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom  (CS2.12).  
Some action sequences are also created in which the students can practise the social language in a fun 
way by repeating, pointing, miming, and acting out in several games  (SELS2.1, V7.2, LS5, LS9). The teacher 
facilitates some activities with dialogues and games in which students can practice the target pronunciation 
by selecting and using them accurately, naturally, and authentically  (CS3.1).  Several fun pronunciation 
games could be played, such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, 
rhyming games, and several sound drills  (SELS2.2).  The target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and 
diphthongs of the theme are practised through them  (CS2.13).  Their learning is evaluated as described in 
items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (D1.2, D1.6, 
D2.5, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4).  
ENG5.5.R1
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS: The teacher facilitates reading and writing 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise 
techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the 
theme in various forms and amounts. Reading is done in two ways in the theme by using the written version 
of the introductory digital story and additional reading texts in reading sections of the instructional material 
to be used  (V3.2, LS2, LS4) .  Various reading styles including silent reading, speed reading, jigsaw reading 
and basic reading techniques including skimming, scanning, and reading for details during pre-reading, 
while-reading and post-reading phases are used in the theme  (V3.4, LS1, CS2.3, CS2.6) . The ultimate aim 
of reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills and 
critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend and talk/write about the content in a meaningful and 
communicative way  (V3.3, V7.2, LS5, CS3.3). For the initial stage of reading, the teacher asks the students 
to look at the audio/visual/written elements  (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) 

===== PDF_PAGE_498 =====
498
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory story or a new text in the reading section of 
the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the conceptual meanings they already have about 
the theme  (CS2.8).  At this stage, the teacher could ask the students to read the title of the theme and ask 
the students which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title  (SELS1.1, 
CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new words or the words they do not know. 
She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity by using the words they know and that there is time 
to work on the new words of the new theme later  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, CS2.10, CS2.12). 
ENG5.5.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING : Students go on with a scanning activity to find 
out the most important details of the introductory digital story and/or a new text in the reading section which 
is organised to help students to know more about the reading content  (CS2.6, CS2.7).  In this way they could 
be able to recognise the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or 
tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned  (quickly read) in the story  (CS2.4).  By doing so, they 
will be able to understand the story/text in general using the main elements  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, V3.4, LS1). 
ENG5.5.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Then the teacher asks the students to do a jigsaw reading activity, 
so she/he shows the written version of the introductory digital story or the text in the reading section on 
the blackboard/Smart Board  (or in any other teaching material).  She/He asks the students to work in pairs 
to share the text  (SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the text and the second peer reads the other 
half of the text in a given time  (CS2.6).  They are then asked to share what they have understood from their 
part with their peer, also in a given time. In this way, they talk about the whole story after reading it silently, 
in the jigsaw reading style  (D2.4, D3.6, V3.4, V4.2, V16.2, LS1, CS2.8, CS2.9).  Some speed-reading activities 
can be used to develop students’ reading and comprehension skills. These activities can be evaluated as 
explained in the item  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After 
sharing their parts, students proceed with the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical 
chunks, and semantic meaning relatively with the help of the teacher  (CS2.14).  For dealing with the semantic 
meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, 
open- ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1).  From display to communicative open-ended, various 
types of questions are used to understand the meaning of the text  (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, CS2.6).  During this 
process students work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings  (D3.2, D3.7, V3.3, 
V7.2, V20.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 
ENG5.5.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process  (SELS1.3).  Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive   (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates 
different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design   (D 2.3, D3.5, 
V4.2, V6.2, V10.3, V12.1, LS1 ). 
ENG5.5.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY : At this stage, students remember what the 
theme is about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/ 
watching, and pre-reading sessions  (SELS1.1).  As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal with the 
main components and target vocabulary of the theme  (V3.2, LS1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_499 =====
499
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY : A scanning activity to find out the main details of the 
introductory digital story  (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help students to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some important pictures, words or events about the main components 
of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen 
and scanned  (quickly read) in the story. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general 
by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items  (D3.2, D3.6, LS1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7)Then the students read the written version of the digital story again silently,  
(or the reading text in the reading section), to check whether they know any of the target vocabulary items 
about the theme  (CS2.8). They underline the words whose meaning they do not know while reading silently  
(CS2.17).  Students say these words when they finish reading and the teacher writes these words on the 
Smart Board/blackboard/ white board as they say them. The teacher writes only the target words on the 
Smart Board/blackboard as active words that the students have said. She/He quickly deals with the non-
target passive vocabulary items by using pictures, mimics, gestures, imitations, examples, etc. But she/he 
takes time to facilitate the teaching of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.2, V3.3, V3.4, LS2, LS4,CS2.4, CS2.5, 
CS2.7). 
To introduce and practise the meanings of the target vocabulary related to the theme, that the students do 
not know, the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story  (or the video of the reading 
text if there is one) again. From the beginning, whenever a target item is mentioned, the teacher stops the 
video and asks several questions in the form of two options, one of which is a word from the previous themes 
that they already know  (V1.1, V5.2, V8.4, V10.2,V14.1, V20.4, LS5, CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what they 
are, the students hear the English equivalents of the words for the theme and they answer as a whole class 
in chorus. In this way, they are introduced to the meanings of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6,D3.7, CS2.10).  This 
is conducted in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (SELS2.1)  
(7),  (8), and  (9) in the section
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4).  After having watched 
the introductory digital story, the teacher shows some pictures for the sub-themes, on the walls as clues and 
says the words aloud several times in sentences by pointing to the pictures and the students repeat after her/
him  (D2.3, V1.1, V5.2, V8.4, V10.2, V14.1,V20.4, LS5, CS2.6, CS2.11).  In this way, the main vocabulary items of 
the theme are introduced to the students in English as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY : The teacher can prepare an activity using the Web 2.0 
programme with images/pictures, and symbolic images for some categories about the components of the 
theme “life in the neighbourhood and city”. She/He also prepares mixed images/pictures for target vocabulary 
items for the activities which can be done in relation to the components. She/He asks the students to look 
at the mixed pile of images/pictures of the main components of the theme on the Smart Board screen and 
scan them for a while to remember them  (V1.1, V5.2, V8.4, V10.2, V14.1, V20.4,LS5, CS2.4).  She/He explains 
to the students that the items will be placed under the correct category, but first she/he gives the students 
the cut-out pictures of the activities and a large sheet of paper with the categories written on it and the cut-
out pictures will be placed under each category correctly  (V3.3, L2, LS4, CS2.5). The teacher asks them to 
work in pairs and place the cut-out pictures in the right category and ask each other some questions about 
the theme  (D3.2, D3.8, SELS2.2, V1.1, V5.2,V8.4, V10.2, V14.1, V20.4, LS5).  When the students have finished 
working with the cut-out pictures and asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them 
to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures under the 
right category on the screen  (SELS1.2, V3.4, V11.1 , V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures 
that are relevant to the main concept and its components are consolidated through categorisation. This 
activity can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. The 
teacher asks the students to copy the words next to the pictures they have pasted or drawn in their picture 
dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with their peers and check each 
other’s spelling  (D3.2, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS9). To consolidate the meaning, selection, 

===== PDF_PAGE_500 =====
500
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
and use of the new target vocabulary items, the teacher could organise activities and tasks using pictures, 
flashcards, sounds, realia, and any other materials to play games such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, 
Odd One out, Wordscapes, Scrabble, Pictionary, Letter Scramble, Acronyms, Charades etc. Games could be 
adapted according to the teacher’s objectives  (pronunciation, spelling, meaning, selection, use etc.), age, 
interests and language level of the students  (CS2.13).  Students can be asked to create their own games 
to use the target vocabulary items in context  (D2.5, D.3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V1.1,V5.2, V8.4, V10.2, V14.1, 
V20.4, LS5, LS9, CS2.20).  Students’ learning can be checked as described in items  (3), and  (4) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG5.5.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS : To draw the students’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme “life in the neighbourhood and city” , the introductory digital story or an extract from 
it played so that the students can notice the target language chunks  (D3.2, CS2.2).  While watching the 
introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/
He imitates the action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the students to do the same  
(V3.2, LS2, CS2.14). She could hold up large pictures corresponding to the chunks when they are mentioned 
in the digital story to draw the students’ attention. The sentences with the target chunks are also written 
and placed on the Smart Board/blackboard/ whiteboard. The teacher also points to these sentences while 
pointing to the scenes in the story where they appear. There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical 
structures at this stage. Students can automatically and naturally identify the use of the target language 
chunks in the current context created in the introductory digital story without working on any rules or 
structures  (SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  To check the students’ identification of the 
target language chunks, after the students have finished watching the introductory digital story, the teacher 
asks them to read the sentences with the target language chunks written by the teacher on the Smart Board 
/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to find the same or similar sentences in the written version of the 
introductory digital story or another text that is shown on the Smart Board  (D3.2, SELS3.2, V3.3).  She/He 
also asks them to find the same or similar sentences with these chunks which are given in different types of 
tables prepared by the teacher  (CS2.7).  These tables do not include any explanations of grammatical rules, 
explanations, or formulas, and they only contain example sentences with target chunks in which important 
words with the target grammar are written in bold or different colours to attract students’ attention. The 
teacher asks them to look at the words in bold or in different colours and asks students to examine them  
(CS2.9).  Then the teacher asks the students to copy these sentences with target chunks written in bold 
or different colours into their notebooks. The teacher asks the students to make very similar sentences 
using the target words and asks them to share their sentences with each other in pairs, and then with the 
class  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, D3.2, V4.2, CS2.13, CS2.14, CS2.16.1,CS2.16.2)  Both the teacher and the class 
members give feedback to the students as they say their sentences  (CS2.19).  The teacher gives all students 
a checklist with simple symbols to evaluate each other’s work as explained in the items  (5) and  (6) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3). 
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate students’ further practice with the target 
language chunks in the theme “life in the neighbourhood and city”, the teacher shows some other sentences 
with these chunks in another context such as a short story, a short paragraph, and a short dialogue etc. 
and asks students to find the sentences with the target chunks in them and asks if they understand them  
(SELS3.2, V1.1, V5.2, V8.4, V10.2, V14.1, V20.4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.8). She/He gives some written 
activities and exercises to practise the target chunks in context. She/He also facilitates more fun activities 
and as described in items  (5),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum. To consolidate the target language chunks, the teacher organises different fun activity 
and game bundles that the students can practise and consolidate them  (CS2.13) where their learning can 
be checked as described in item  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum  (D2.5, V4.4). 

===== PDF_PAGE_501 =====
501
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.5.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION : Practising through writing: Writing activities 
help students  to  produce  and  display  meaningful  written  language  for  their  personal  expression  and 
communication with others, by using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and 
the social language in this theme, as in other themes.  (V1.1, V5.2, V8.4,V10.2, V14.1, V20.4, LS5). 
ENG5.5.W2.
RECOGNISING THE MODEL:  Initially, students produce very limited and short pieces of writing such as 
sentences to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “life in the neighbourhood and 
city”. They practise the language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat or simply 
explain what they hear and see in context and what they are asked to do. They are provided a written model/
example to copy to be able to notice significant points and elements in it  (SELS3.1).  While copying a short 
model writing, they become aware of the aspects such as the use of words, language chunks, punctuation, 
spelling and so on  (D3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). 
ENG5.5.W3.
CREATING THE WRITING CONTENT: Controlled writing of words and sentences turns to short paragraphs in 
a process writing manner with the support of the teacher’s feedback in the theme. This process is expanded 
and supported by several practical activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/ 
pantomime/video stories, dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, 
etc. to practise further by writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (D1.3, D3.1, SELS3.2,V3.4, V4.4, V7.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG5.5.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
projects, scripts for plays, diaries/journals, blogs, very short film scenarios, etc. to express their ideas, 
thoughts, and feelings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be contextual, practical, 
authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests and language level.   (V3.4, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, 
LS9). 
ENG5.5.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING: Students  interact  and  communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the language including the target words, language 
chunks, and the social language for the theme in their writing  (SELS2.2, SELS2.3,V1.1, V5.2, V8.4, V10.2, 
V14.1, V20.4, LS5, LS9, CS2.20). AI- based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students 
access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home in 
a variety of ways  (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3,V7.2, LS2, CS2.20) .These activities are evaluated as described in 
items  (11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles  for  the  Implementation  of  the  English  Curriculum.
ENG5.5.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (D1.5, SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 

===== PDF_PAGE_502 =====
502
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design.   (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, 
V20.4, LS1). 
ENG5.5.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING: The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from the 
first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance students’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language expressions of the theme .   (V1.1, 
V5.2, V8.4, V10.2, V14.1, V20.4, LS5). 
ENG5.5.S2
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL: In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, students 
recognise how the language with the target language items is used  (CS2.6).  They practise the language in a 
controlled way, by telling, repeating, explaining what they hear and see in the context  (D1.3, D3.2, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.4). 
ENG5.5.S3
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues etc. as new opportunities for the students to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc  (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13). 
ENG5.5.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS:  Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products 
related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact 
with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme  (SELS2.2,SELS3.2, V1.1, V5.2, V8.4, V10.2, 
V14.1, V20.4, LS5, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access 
to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, V7.2,LS2, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG5.5.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students communicate with each other 
by seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme “life in the neighbourhood and city” in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  
(SELS2.3, CS2.20).  Picture strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation 
and revision  (V3.4, V4.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). These new contents created are contextual, 
practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. Storification 
and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used together with other further speaking practice 
throughout the theme. Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended 
contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact and to communicate 
with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme and its components such as “places for 
recreation and attractions in the neighbourhood and city; different types of houses” (V1.1, V5.2, V8.4, V10.2, 
V14.1, V20.4, LS4, LS5, CS3.1, CS2.20) .  AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving 
students access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and 
at home through recordings   (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.3, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described 
in items  (7),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
Then they can expand their language use and practise by communicating with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_503 =====
503
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.5.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole speaking-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and 
take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different activities 
for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design.  (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, LS1). 
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To talk about attractions in the city in English by using comparative forms of adjectives.
Activity 1: The Best Attraction
The teacher divides the class into small groups. Each group selects a specific real or fictional attraction 
in the city (the art museum, the zoo, the amusement park…) Groups should gather information about their 
attractions, focusing on characteristics that can be compared. The teacher tells them to think about factors 
such as: size, popularity, activities available. Students prepare a short presentation using comparative 
forms. They should focus on why their attraction is the best choice for visitors. Each group presents their 
chosen attraction. After each presentation, the teacher allows time for questions from other groups and 
encourages them to challenge each other’s claims using comparative language. (“Why is the park more 
exciting than the historical site?”). After each presentation, the teacher gives constructive feedback and 
encourages students to give feedback using specific criteria. For example, they could comment on the 
clarity of the comparisons made, the use of comparative language, and the overall presentation style. After 
completing the presentations, students can reflect on their experience by using emojis to express their 
thoughts and feelings. They can choose emojis to represent various aspects of the activity, such as what 
they learned, how they felt about their presentation, and what they found challenging. Students reflect on 
their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To talk about attractions in the city in English by using comparative forms of adjectives.
Activity: The Best Attraction
The teacher divides the class into small groups. Each group selects a specific attraction in the city (the art 
museum, the park, the amusement park…). The teacher provides a vocabulary list with simple adjectives, 
visuals and definitions. She/He also gives sentence starters to help them form sentences. Students 
write a few sentences using comparative forms. Each group presents their chosen attraction. After each 
presentation, the teacher gives constructive feedback and encourages students to give feedback using 
specific criteria. For example, they could comment on the clarity of the comparisons made, the use of 
comparative language, and the overall presentation style. After completing the presentations, students can 
reflect on their experience by using emojis to express their thoughts and feelings. They can choose emojis to 
represent various aspects of the activity, such as what they learned, how they felt about their presentation, 
and what they found challenging. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_504 =====
504
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 6: LIFE IN THE WORLD 
Sub-themes: Basic food types; ordering in a 
restaurant; food events in the city
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in the world” and covers the sub-
themes of “basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city”. 
These components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning process 
through the contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, 
phonological features, and social language expressions. The learning 
and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, and 
communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ developmental level, 
interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to equip 
learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively use 
English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8.Questioning
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1 Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2 Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V10. Modesty, V11. 
Independence, V12. Patience, V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V15. Love and 
Affection, V16. Responsibility, V17. Thriftiness, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_505 =====
505
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Physical Education and Sports, Visual Arts, 
Music, Information Technologies and Software
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information 
Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. 
Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based 
Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring 
Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. 
Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. 
Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing 
Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical 
Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_506 =====
506
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 5 is structured based on semi-holistic/semi-inductive approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.5.6.L1.  Students can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “life in the world with basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the 
city” carefully.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience related to the current theme 
and content by recalling their background knowledge imaginatively in her/his own language 
without speaking it.
b) Students identify significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge and 
experiences and the clues to the current content without translation.
c) Students make predictions about the current content on “life in the world” by using the 
relationships that they recognised accurately by looking at the provided realia, pictures, and 
context.
d) Students make predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/visual 
elements in relation to the current theme.
ENG.5.6.L2.  Students can bring information about the current conte t on “life in the world with basic food 
types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city” together through significant details 
and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Students comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole.
b) Students recognise the significant details and components within the whole current content 
by listening (to) and watching it again in a careful manner.
ENG.5.6.L3.  Students can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “life in the world 
with basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city” through significant 
details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Students check any initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals surrounding the current 
content.
b) Students make important and necessary classifications in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
c) Students make important and necessary comparisons in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content with the help of classifications and comparisons made 
earlier.
e) Students make significant inferences that contribute to the understanding of the meaning of 
the generally perceived current content.
f) Students construct the meaning of the current content in detail through the classifications/
comparisons/inferences made earlier in relation to it.
g) Students internalise the current content in an individualised and appropriate way according to 
age and language level.
ENG.5.6.L4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully 
about the whole listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content 
on “life in the world with basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city”.
a) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content.

===== PDF_PAGE_507 =====
507
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content by sharing them with others.
ENG.5.6.P1.  Students can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about “life 
in the world with basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city” accurately, 
authentically, and naturally through spontaneous decision-making processes and use it in an 
appropriate and effective way when communicating with others.
a) Students listen to the current content by paying attention to the target phonological aspects 
including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Students reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source 
several times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Students recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts.
d) Students recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they 
are heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Students use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.5.6.R1.  Students can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“life in the world with basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city”. 
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content efficiently.
b) Students recognise significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Students making significant preliminary predictions about the current content based on 
recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring the audio-visual 
clues surrounding it.
ENG.5.6.R2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “life in the world with basic food 
types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city” through skimming (looking quickly at) 
the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Students review the current content by looking at the surrounding audio/visual materials to 
identify what it is about in general through skimming.
b) Students read the current content to scan the major components silently and quickly with the 
help of the clues provided. 
c) Students carefully read the current content silently and carefully to find significant details and 
components belonging to the theme.
ENG.5.6.R3.  Students can make meaning of / derive meaning from the current content about “life in the 
world with basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city” by reading it 
carefully.
a) Students carefully check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial and detailed 
predictions that are made earlier. 
b) Students classify the significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
c) Students compare significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.

===== PDF_PAGE_508 =====
508
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships within the current 
content that contribute to the perception of the content in a meaningful way.
e) Students make meaningful inferences from the information in the current content by 
examining it carefully.
f) Students internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to age and language level.
ENG.5.6.R4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “life in the world with basic food 
types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city” in relation to themselves or others, 
both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have 
been carefully examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process.
b) Students convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been carefully 
examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing 
them with others.
c) Students produce new products related to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities. 
ENG.5.6.V1.  Students can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “life in the 
world with basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city” accurately, 
authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when 
communicating with others.
a) Students guess the main topic of the current content from the audio/visual/written elements 
(e.g. sound, voices, scenes, written words) in the contextual material by listening (to)/watching/
reading it several times for recognition.
b) Students recognise sub-themes/key components of the target words to which they belong in 
the current content by scanning.
c) Students recognise the target words related to the main components of the current content 
with the help of the audio/visual/written elements and other clues.
d) Repeating aloud the relevant target key components and target vocabulary in the current 
content with the whole class, in groups, and then individually together with or after listening 
(to)/watching/reading the source material.
e) Students recognise the use of target words and expressions in the current content by making 
various guesses with the help of supplementary elements.
f) Students make context-appropriate selections automatically by associating target words 
with their pre-existing conceptual meanings in the mind without analysing their contextual 
meaning in detail. 
g) Students use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts by being aware of their differences when communicating with others.
ENG.5.6.G1.  Students can select and use the target grammatical elements of the current content about 
“life in the world with basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city” 
accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively 
when communicating with others.
a) Being familiar with the current content by listening (to)/watching/reading it a few times 
attentively.
b) Students listen (to)/watch/read the same content, attentively and mindfully, including the use 
of target grammatical chunks presented verbally in context with the help of body language.

===== PDF_PAGE_509 =====
509
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students verbally and automatically repeat simple and meaningful clauses/sentences 
containing target grammatical chunks that they have noticed in the current content that they 
have heard/viewed/read without explicit knowledge of the rules.
d) Students act out physically the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks 
in the current content heard/viewed/read by repeating them several times without knowing, 
analysing, and thinking about their rules.
e) Students see and read the example sentences containing target grammatical chunks provided 
for language awareness carefully.
f) Students gain awareness of clauses/sentences that contain target grammatical chunks that 
are presented for the purpose of raising language awareness.
g) Students recognise the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks when 
they encounter them by seeing and/or hearing them in different contexts.
h) Students use the recognised target grammatical chunks naturally, authentically, and 
automatically in new contextual tasks and activities without analysing their rules.
i) Students produce new and meaningful verbal/written content about the current theme by 
using the target grammatical chunks in meaningful tasks without knowing and analysing their 
rules.
j) Students use the target language chunks authentically, automatically, and naturally in 
communication processes without analysing their rules in meaningful contexts.
ENG.5.6.W1.  Students can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “life 
in the world with basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city”.
a) Students relate their pre-existing knowledge and experience used in the initial processes of 
writing-expression skills to the current content by activating them in relation with the current 
content.
b) Students understand what the writing task and its content are in relation to the current 
content correctly by making use of their pre-existing knowledge and experience as guided and 
assigned.
ENG.5.6.W2.  Students can understand the model/example for the writing task about the current content 
on “life in the world with basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city”.
a) Students understand the components and details of the content in the provided model/
sample which is displayed as a guide, by examining it carefully.
ENG.5.6.W3.  Students can organise a content for the assigned writing task on the current content “life in 
the world with basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city” based on the 
model/example provided.
a) Students conduct preliminary research for a prepared writing situation according to the 
current content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
b) Students develop a simple draft for a prepared/or unprepared writing task about the current 
content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
c) Students organise and/or produce materials relevant to the content for a prepared/
unprepared writing task, appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level. 
ENG.5.6.W4.  Students can individually construct/form content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “life in the world with basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the 
city”.
a) Students present appropriate and accurate materials for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task about the current theme according to the assigned writing type, age, and language 
level.

===== PDF_PAGE_510 =====
510
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and rules relevant to the assigned writing 
type for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language chunks accurately and appropriately 
for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task about the current content by selecting them 
according to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
d) Students express important messages in the written current content to the reader accurately 
and appropriately for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
ENG.5.6.W5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information in the new written tasks about 
the “life in the world with basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city” to 
communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information in the current content or similar information in a different content 
by internalising and selecting it individually and reorganising it as required and meaningfully in 
different contexts.
b) Students exchange information/ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge meaningfully with others.
ENG.5.6.W6.  Students can reflect on their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to 
the writing-expression process about the current content, “life in the world with basic food 
types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city” in relation to themselves or others, 
both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in 
relation to the current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in relation to the 
writing-expression process about the current content with others.
c) Students produce new written products related to the current writing-expression content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities.
ENG.5.6.S1.  Students can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “life in 
the world with basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city”.
a) Students make connections with the current content by activating their pre-existing 
knowledge and experiences that they have recalled in the listening (to)/watching/reading 
sections previously.
ENG.5.6.S2.  Students can use the model/example for producing verbal content about the current content 
on “life in the world with basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city”.
a) Students listen (to)/watch/read the model/example for the current content with the help of 
audio/visual/written elements.
ENG.5.6.S3.  Students can organise a new verbal content on “life in the world with basic food types; ordering 
in a restaurant; food events in the city” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students recognise what form and type of content is expected and assigned for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations based on audio/visual/written content as provided in the 
model/example.
b) Students organise the content for prepared/unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate 
and accurate way as they have heard/seen/read in the model/example.
c) Students develop a draft for prepared/unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the 
age and language level as presented in the model/sample content.
d) Students organise supplementary audio/visual/written materials for prepared/or unprepared 
speaking situations, appropriate to age and language level, as provided in the model/sample 
content.

===== PDF_PAGE_511 =====
511
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
e) Students organise the information about the current content to be presented for prepared/or 
unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate way as required.
ENG.5.6.S4.  Students can construct a new verbal content on “life in the world with basic food types; 
ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and 
authentically.
a) Students use target pronunciation, vocabulary, language chunks, and forms of discourse 
related to the current content effectively by selecting them accurately and appropriately for 
prepared/unprepared speaking situations.
b) Students present individually prepared content in an accurate and efficient way as presented 
in the model/example for prepared speaking situations clearly, efficiently, and appropriately.
c) Students present individually prepared information in an accurate and efficient way as 
presented in the model/example for unprepared speaking situations.
d) Students express the message about the current content clearly to the reader by using all 
supplementary elements and body language in an appropriate and accurate way in context for 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.5.6.S5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information about the “life in the world with 
basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city” to communicate with other 
people.
a) Students use the information presented in the current content by reorganising it appropriately, 
efficiently, individually, and verbally in different contexts.
b) Students engage in appropriate and efficient verbal communication by sharing the 
reconstructed meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.5.6.S6.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
speaking-expression process about the current content, “life in the world with basic food 
types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city” to communicate with other people in 
relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully in 
relation to the speaking-expression process about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_512 =====
512
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN THE WORLD: 
Sub-Themes: Basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events the city.
Target Vocabulary in Use:
Vocabulary for basic food types: Nouns: Dairy, nuts, beef, beans, a sweet (candy-AmE), a biscuit (cookie-
AmE), jam, oil, a lemon, a top, a bottom, a bit, amount, soup, a salad, spices, sugar, butter, salt, pasta, flour, 
bread, tuna, a tart, garlic, meat, a plate, a recipe. Verbs: To boil, to cut, to wash, to dry, to heat, to taste, to 
contain, to need, to mash, to prepare, to slice, to cook. Adjectives: Fresh, home-made, boiled, healthy, light, 
sweet, fatty, special. Adverbs: Carefully, slowly, quickly. Phrases: To put on weight, to lose weight, at/on the 
top of.
Vocabulary for ordering in a restaurant:  Nouns: Sauce, tip, a bowl, a bit, a chef, a dessert, a drink (a 
beverage-AmE), an order, a service, a side, tasting, a recipe, a quality, amount, a meal, a main dish, a starter 
(an appetizer-AmE). Verbs: To order, to serve, to book, to taste, to pay, to smell, to recommend, to reserve. 
Adjectives: Empty, tasty, delicious. Phrases: To book a table, to pay in cash.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-“Can” for Permission: (Can I pay in cash?)
-“Have got/Has got”: (She has got a new recipe.)
-Countable and Uncountable Nouns: (How many lemons do you need for the recipe?)
Functions of the Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of Modal “Can” for Permission: Asking or giving permission
-Use of Modal “Have got/Has got”: Expressing possession.
-Use of Countable and Uncountable nouns: Expressing the amount of quantity of nouns.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations:  “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”. 
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and  Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage  will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table of contents for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum. 
Target Social Language in Use: 
Let’s eat out! 
This problem is a hot potato! 
My sister is buttering my mother up to get permission to go to the cinema!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use: 
l, m, n, (ng), o, p
Vowel: o: (/əʊ/, /ɒ/, /əʊ/)
Consonants:  l: (/ɛl/ ,/l/); m (/ɛm/,/m/);   n: (/ɛn/, /n/); ng: (/ng/);  p: ( /piː/,/p/)
*Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme.
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “life in the world” and its components such as “basic food types; ordering 
in a restaurant; food events in the city” is present in almost all languages. People who start to learn a new 
language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to their new language learning. For 
instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what “life in the world” and its components such as 

===== PDF_PAGE_513 =====
513
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
“basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city” means but will not know how to say them 
in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing 
knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more 
easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts:
food, food types, basic food types; ordering, restaurants, ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will work in pairs to create a short dialogue about ordering food in 
different types of restaurants and cafés. Each pair will include things like greetings, asking about the menu, 
choosing food, and talking about preferences. Then they will act out their dialogue in front of the class. The 
assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “life in the world” and its components such as “basic food 
types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city”. As they are lower secondary school students in year 
5 (five), they can know what “life in the world” and its components such as “basic food types; ordering in a 
restaurant; food events in the city” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people who start 
to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and transfer 
it to their new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these things in a foreign 
language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in 
their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a foreign language, 
in this case English.
As they are students in year 5 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “life 
in the world” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or years. These 
grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning of the year, and 
they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current theme, so 
that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about the “life in the world” and its components such as “basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; 
food events in the city”. Recalling and practising with relevant vocabulary and grammatical items in English 
that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the 
current content on the concept of “life in the world”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise 
all vocabulary and language chunks from the previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in 
English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they 
remember and how much they are able to understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks 
to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to 
revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their 
performance can be evaluated by rubrics throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students can recall the current (theme) concept of “life in the world” and its components such as “basic 
food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city” by remembering their pre-existing background 
knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with the current 
activities in the current theme in English without translating anything until they start learning the target 
words in the current (new) concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
various materials such as short scene from a film, series, a part from a story, a poster etc. which is appropriate 

===== PDF_PAGE_514 =====
514
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
to the age, level, and pedagogy could be used before the main teaching/learning flow of the class begins. 
They would give a general idea of the theme. Students are facilitated with the relevant materials through 
various activities.  When they have finished working on it, the teacher asks them in English if they understood 
what was it about. For checking their understanding, she can design several activities. For instance, they can 
write a related word that they know in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways can be tried.
The teacher asks them to wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the digital introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any 
further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme “life in the world” in the classroom, to prepare the students emotionally, 
cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker 
to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This 
could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing 
a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote/a very short story, watching a 
pantomime/cartoon story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require 
any knowledge of English  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4). 
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills  (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around “life in the world” and sub-themes “basic food types; ordering in 
a restaurant; food events in the city” , allowing students to build background knowledge through receptive 
skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful 
and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are 
sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely 
linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development and to 
increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a balanced integration of all the skills, 
where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) and 
respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their vocabulary, 
grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG5.6.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: Having seen a visual about and having guessed 
the topic of “life in the world” during the background recall session, students can have a vision of the current 
theme as a general concept in the current  (new) theme  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, V13.1, V13.4, V14.1, V15.5, 
V17.1, V17.2, LS1, LS4, LS5,CS2.11, CS2.16.2). So, a further concept check with listening/watching for gist 
activities including more guessing games using clues from some pictures, realia, short video clips etc. help 
them prepare for the current theme  (CS2.6, CS2.8).  For each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as 
the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through the theme to cover target 
pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole 
theme  (CS2.14).  It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. The 
teacher asks them whether their guesses during the background recall session were correct and also what 
they think the introductory digital story that they are going to watch could be about  (CS2.8).  As they have 
already seen a scene from a film about the theme and the pictures, realia, etc. they can easily answer what 
the current theme will be about and that their guesses were true  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.3, V3.4 
, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17). 

===== PDF_PAGE_515 =====
515
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.6.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING: The teacher asks the students to 
watch the introductory digital story carefully, recalling the work done with visuals  (the scene from a film, 
pictures, realia, or video clips about the theme shown earlier)   ( CS2.11).  Students watch the introductory 
digital story to consolidate the identification of the “life in the world”  in it as a whole  (CS2.13) without stopping 
the video at any point, so that the students can understand the theme holistically  (D3.2, SELS1.1,V3.3,V3.4, 
V13.1, V13.4, V14.1, V15.5, V17.1, V17.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.14, CS2.16.2). 
ENG5.6.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw students’ attention to the 
content, some realia brought into the classroom by the teacher could be used  (V13.1, V13.4, V14.1, V15.5, V17.1, 
V17.2, LS5). The teacher could show the corresponding objects to the students when the corresponding 
vocabulary for the main components of the theme “life in the world” is mentioned in the introductory digital 
story, without stopping the video while the students watch the story  (CS2.6 ).  When they have watched 
the whole story, the teacher could show the realia items on the table and ask questions with two options  
(CS2.5).  As one of the words is from the previous themes, students could hear, understand, recognise and 
learn the  (new) target vocabulary for each main component of the theme easily  (CS2.1).  In this way, the 
teacher could engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the components 
of the theme, and that they have understood each realia item is about one component  (CS2.8).  Further 
activities and games can be played at this stage to reinforce the general meaning of the theme through its 
main components  (D1.1, D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4). 
To check whether the students understand the general topic of the theme “life in the world” and remember 
the sequence of the scenes of the introductory digital story, the teacher shows an organiser with the mixed 
images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the students to look at the images/pictures of 
the scenes for a while  (CS2.3).  She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs in their seats with the 
mixed paper pictures she/he has already given to the students  (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS4 ). When the 
pairs have finished sorting the pictures for the scenes of the story, the teacher asks the students to take 
turns or volunteer to sort the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board  (or the pictures on the blackboard)  
(SELS1.2, V11.1, CS2.6, CS2.10).  This will help the students to organise the story as a whole so that they can 
identify the main theme and the components of the theme from their memories  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, V16.3, 
V20.4, CS2.12). 
ENG5.6.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/ W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process   (SELS1.3, V3.4) . Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (V11.1 ,CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each 
other in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, 
V12.1, LS5).  The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design  (V10.3). 
ENG5.6.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION : To practise pronunciation of the new target words, word 
groups, language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “life in the world” and the words 
and/or word groups for the sub-themes “basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city”,   
the teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the whole or some extracts from the introductory digital 
story by noticing how words are pronounced  (V3.3, V13.1, V13.4, V14.1, V15.5, V17.1, V17.2, LS4, LS5, CS2.6). 
She/He asks them to repeat the word aloud when she/he stops the video for a word and says it. The teacher 
then asks the students to listen and repeat the same words aloud a few times as a whole class after listening 

===== PDF_PAGE_516 =====
516
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
to the recordings that she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes  (LS2, CS2.16.3). 
The teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as showing the picture of the target word to 
the students to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the 
recording, and then both  (CS2.8).  To help the students pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks 
them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in 
large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V4.2,V11.1, 
V20.4, LS1, CS2.14). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Practice of pronunciation could be done with different 
forms of TPR, gamification and drama activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words/word groups
for the sub-themes “basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food events in the city” , the students listen  
(CS2.9); then the teacher says the target words/word groups and acts them out, the students repeat after 
her/him  (SELS2.1, CS2.14 ).  Then the teacher and the students say the target words/word groups and act 
them out together at the same time. Then the teacher says the words/word groups and acts them out. These 
activities can be done through the actions for the sub-theme s  (D2.3, D2.5,V3.3, V13.1, V13.4, V14.1, V15.5, 
V17.1, V17.2, LS5). As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, sadly, angrily, etc. 
using different tones of voice  (SELS2.3, CS2.8, CS2.11).  They also practise for the target social language 
chunks using the same or similar techniques. During the repetitions, they point to relevant pictures that 
the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom  (CS2.12).  Some action sequences are also 
created in which the students can practise the social language in a fun way by repeating, pointing, miming, 
and acting out in several games  (SELS2.1, V7.2, LS5, LS9) . The teacher facilitates some activities with 
dialogues and games in which students can practice the target pronunciation by selecting and using them 
accurately, naturally, and authentically  (CS3.1).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as 
shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound 
drills  (SELS2.2).  The target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are practised 
through them  (CS2.13).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.5, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4).  
ENG5.6.R1
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS: The teacher facilitates reading and writing 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise 
techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the 
theme in various forms and amounts. Reading is done in two ways in the theme by using the written version 
of the introductory digital story and additional reading texts in reading sections of the instructional material 
to be used  (V3.2, LS2, LS4) .  Various reading styles including silent reading, speed reading, jigsaw reading 
and basic reading techniques including skimming, scanning, and reading for details during pre-reading, 
while-reading and post-reading phases are used in the theme  (V3.4, LS1, CS2.3, CS2.6) . The ultimate aim 
of reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills and 
critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend and talk/write about the content in a meaningful and 
communicative way  (V3.3, V7.2, LS5, CS3.3). For the initial stage of reading, the teacher asks the students 
to look at the audio/visual/written elements
 (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual 
introductory story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming to 
recall the conceptual meanings they already have about the theme  (CS2.8).  At this stage, the teacher could 
ask the students to read the title of the theme and ask the students which words they already know, and 
which come to mind in connection with the title  (SELS1.1, CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask the 
meanings of any new words or the words they do not know. She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing 
activity by using the words they know and that there is time to work on the new words of the new theme later  
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, CS2.10, CS2.12). 

===== PDF_PAGE_517 =====
517
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.6.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING : Students go on with a scanning activity to find 
out the most important details of the introductory digital story and/or a new text in the reading section which 
is organised to help students to know more about the reading content  (CS2.6, CS2.7).  In this way they could 
be able to recognise the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or 
tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned  (quickly read) in the story  (CS2.4).  By doing so, they 
will be able to understand the story/text in general using the main elements  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, V3.4, LS1). 
ENG5.6.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Then the teacher asks the students to do a jigsaw reading activity, 
so she/he shows the written version of the introductory digital story or the text in the reading section on 
the blackboard/Smart Board  (or in any other teaching material).  She/He asks the students to work in pairs 
to share the text  (SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the text and the second peer reads the other 
half of the text in a given time  (CS2.6).  They are then asked to share what they have understood from their 
part with their peer, also in a given time. In this way, they talk about the whole story after reading it silently, 
in the jigsaw reading style  (D2.4, D3.6, V3.4, V4.2, V16.2, LS1, CS2.8, CS2.9).  Some speed-reading activities 
can be used to develop students’ reading and comprehension skills. These activities can be evaluated as 
explained in the item  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After 
sharing their parts, students proceed with the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical 
chunks, and semantic meaning relatively with the help of the teacher  (CS2.14).  For dealing with the semantic 
meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, 
open- ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1).  From display to communicative open-ended, various 
types of questions are used to understand the meaning of the text  (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, CS2.6).  During this 
process students work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings  (D3.2, D3.7, V3.3, 
V7.2, V20.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 
ENG5.6.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process  (SELS1.3).  Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive   (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates 
different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design   (D 2.3 , D3.5,  
V4.2,  V6.2, V10.3, V12.1, LS1). 
ENG5.6.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY : At this stage, students remember what the 
theme is about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/ 
watching, and pre-reading sessions  (SELS1.1).  As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal with the 
main components and target vocabulary of the theme  (V3.2, LS1). 
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY : A scanning activity to find out the main details of the 
introductory digital story  (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help students to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some important pictures, words or events about the main components 
of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen 
and scanned  (quickly read) in the story. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general 
by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items  (D3.2, D3.6, LS1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7)Then the students read the written version of the digital story again silently,  

===== PDF_PAGE_518 =====
518
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
(or the reading text in the reading section), to check whether they know any of the target vocabulary items 
about the theme  (V16.3, CS2.8). They underline the words whose meaning they do not know while reading 
silently  (CS2.17).  Students say these words when they finish reading and the teacher writes these words 
on the Smart Board/blackboard/ white board as they say them. The teacher writes only the target words on 
the Smart Board/blackboard as active words that the students have said. She/He quickly deals with the non-
target passive vocabulary items by using pictures, mimics, gestures, imitations, examples, etc. But she/he 
takes time to facilitate the teaching of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.2, V3.3, V3.4, LS2, LS4,CS2.4, CS2.5, 
CS2.7). 
To introduce and practise the meanings of the target vocabulary related to the theme, that the students do 
not know, the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story  (or the video of the reading 
text if there is one) again. From the beginning, whenever a target item is mentioned, the teacher stops the 
video and asks several questions in the form of two options, one of which is a word from the previous themes 
that they already know  (V13.1, V13.4, V14.1, V15.5, V17.1, V17.2, LS5, CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what they 
are, the students hear the English equivalents of the words for the theme and they answer as a whole class in 
chorus. In this way, they are introduced to the meanings of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.7, CS2.10).  This is 
conducted in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (SELS2.1)  (7),  
(8), and  (9) in the section1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.   (V3.3, V3.4, LS1, 
LS2, LS4).  After having watched the introductory digital story, the teacher shows some pictures for the sub-
themes, on the walls as clues and says the words aloud several times in sentences by pointing to the pictures 
and the students repeat after her/him  (D2.3, V13.1, V13.4, V14.1, V15.5, V17.1, V17.2, LS5, CS2.6, CS2.11).  In 
this way, the main vocabulary items of the theme are introduced to the students in English as described in 
item  (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY : The teacher can prepare an activity using the Web 2.0 
programme with images/pictures, and symbolic images for some categories about the components of the 
theme “life in the world” . She/He also prepares mixed images/pictures for target vocabulary items for the 
activities which can be done in relation to the components. She/He asks the students to look at the mixed 
pile of images/pictures of the main components of the theme on the Smart Board screen and scan them 
for a while to remember them  (V13.1, V13.4, V14.1, V15.5, V17.1, V17.2, LS5, CS2.4). She/He explains to the 
students that the items will be placed under the correct category, but first she/he gives the students the 
cut-out pictures of the activities and a large sheet of paper with the categories written on it and the cut-out 
pictures will be placed under each category correctly  (V3.3, L2, LS4, CS2.5). The teacher asks them to work 
in pairs and place the cut-out pictures in the right category and ask each other some questions about the 
theme  (D3.2, D3.8, SELS2.2,V13.1, V13.4, V14.1, V15.5, V17.1, V17.2, LS5 ).  When the students have finished 
working with the cut-out pictures and asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to 
take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures under the right 
category on the screen  (SELS1.2, V3.4, V11.1, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are 
relevant to the main concept and its components are consolidated through categorisation. This activity can 
be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. The teacher asks 
the students to copy the words next to the pictures they have pasted or drawn in their picture dictionaries and 
then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling  (D3.2, 
SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS9). To consolidate the meaning, selection, and use of the new target 
vocabulary items, the teacher could organise activities and tasks using pictures, flashcards, sounds, realia, 
and any other materials to play games such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, Wordscapes, 
Scrabble, Pictionary, Letter Scramble, Acronyms, Charades etc. Games could be adapted according to the 
teacher’s objectives  (pronunciation, spelling, meaning, selection, use etc.), age, interests and language level 
of the students  (CS2.13).  Students can be asked to create their own games to use the target vocabulary 
items in context  (D2.5, D.3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V4.2, V4.4, V13.1, V13.4, V14.1, V15.5, V17.1, V17.2, LS5, LS9, 
CS2.20).  Students’ learning can be checked as described in items  (3), and  (4) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.

===== PDF_PAGE_519 =====
519
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.6.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS : To draw the students’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme “life in the world” , the introductory digital story or an extract from it played so that 
the students can notice the target language chunks  (D3.2, CS2.2).  While watching the introductory digital 
story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the 
action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the students to do the same  (V3.2, LS2, CS2.14). 
She could hold up large pictures corresponding to the chunks when they are mentioned in the digital story 
to draw the students’ attention. The sentences with the target chunks are also written and placed on the 
Smart Board/blackboard/ whiteboard. The teacher also points to these sentences while pointing to the 
scenes in the story where they appear. There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this 
stage. Students can automatically and naturally identify the use of the target language chunks in the current 
context created in the introductory digital story without working on any rules or structures  (SELS3.1, V3.4, 
LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  To check the students’ identification of the target language chunks, 
after the students have finished watching the introductory digital story, the teacher asks them to read 
the sentences with the target language chunks written by the teacher on the Smart Board /blackboard/
whiteboard and asks them to find the same or similar sentences in the written version of the introductory 
digital story or another text that is shown on the Smart Board  (D3.2, SELS3.2, V3.3). She/He also asks them 
to find the same or similar sentences with these chunks which are given in different types of tables prepared 
by the teacher  (CS2.7).  These tables do not include any explanations of grammatical rules, explanations, 
or formulas, and they only contain example sentences with target chunks in which important words with the 
target grammar are written in bold or different colours to attract students’ attention. The teacher asks them 
to look at the words in bold or in different colours and asks students to examine them  (CS2.9).  Then the 
teacher asks the students to copy these sentences with target chunks written in bold or different colours 
into their notebooks. The teacher asks the students to make very similar sentences using the target words 
and asks them to share their sentences with each other in pairs, and then with the class   (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, 
D3.2, V4.2, CS2.13,CS2.14, CS2.16.1, CS2.16.2) .  Both the teacher and the class members give feedback to 
the students as they say their sentences   (CS2.19).  The teacher gives all students a checklist with simple 
symbols to evaluate each other’s work as explained in the items  (5) and  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3 ). 
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate students’ further practice with the target 
language chunks in the theme “life in the world”, the teacher shows some other sentences with these chunks 
in another context such as a short story, a short paragraph, and a short dialogue etc. and asks students to 
find the sentences with the target chunks in them and asks if they understand them  (SELS3.2, V3.3, V13.1, 
V13.4, V14.1, V15.5, V17.1, V17.2,LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.8).  She/He gives some written activities and exercises 
to practise the target chunks in context. She/He also facilitates more fun activities and as described in 
items  (5),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. To 
consolidate the target language chunks, the teacher organises different fun activity and game bundles that 
the students can practise and consolidate them  (CS2.13) where their learning can be checked as described 
in item  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (D2.5, V4.4). 
ENG5.6.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION : Practising through writing: Writing activities 
help students  to  produce  and  display  meaningful  written  language  for  their  personal  expression  and 
communication with others, by using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and 
the social language in this theme, as in other themes.  (V3.2, V13.1, V13.4, V14.1, V15.5, V17.1, V17.2, LS5). 

===== PDF_PAGE_520 =====
520
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.6.W2.
RECOGNISING THE MODEL:  Initially, students produce very limited and short pieces of writing such as 
sentences to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “life in the world” They practise 
the language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat or simply explain what they hear 
and see in context and what they are asked to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy to be 
able to notice significant points and elements in it  (SELS3.1).  While copying a short model writing, they 
become aware of the aspects such as the use of words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on  
(D3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). 
ENG5.6.W3.
CREATING THE WRITING CONTENT: Controlled writing of words and sentences turns to short paragraphs in 
a process writing manner with the support of the teacher’s feedback in the theme. This process is expanded 
and supported by several practical activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/ 
pantomime/video stories, dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, 
etc. to practise further by writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (D1.3, D3.1, SELS3.2,V3.4, V4.4, V7.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG5.6.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
projects, scripts for plays, diaries/journals, blogs, very short film scenarios, etc. to express their ideas, 
thoughts, and feelings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be contextual, practical, 
authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests and language level.   (V3.4, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, 
LS9). 
ENG5.6.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING: Students  interact  and  communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the language including the target words, language 
chunks, and the social language for the theme in their writing  (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V13.1, V13.4, 
V14.1, V15.5, V17.1, V17.2, LS5, LS9, CS2.20). AI- based technologies can be used for various activities, giving 
students access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and 
at home in a variety of ways  (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3,V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).  These activities are evaluated 
as described in items  (11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles  for  the  Implementation  of  the  English  
Curriculum.
ENG5.6.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (D1.5, SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design.   (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, 
V20.4, LS1 ). 

===== PDF_PAGE_521 =====
521
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.6.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING: The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from the 
first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance students’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language expressions of the theme  (V3.2, 
V3.4, V13.1, V13.4, V14.1, V15.5, V17.1, V17.2, LS5). 
ENG5.6.S2
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL: In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, students 
recognise how the language with the target language items is used  (CS2.6).  They practise the language in a 
controlled way, by telling, repeating, explaining what they hear and see in the context  (D1.3, D3.2, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.4). 
ENG5.6.S3
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues etc. as new opportunities for the students to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc  (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13). 
ENG5.6.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS:  Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products 
related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact 
with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V13.1, V13.4, 
V14.1, V15.5,V17.1, V17.2, LS5, CS2.20).  AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving 
students access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and 
at home through recordings  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, V7.2, LS2, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG5.6.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Students communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related 
to the theme “life in the world” in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.3, CS2.20).  Picture 
strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision  (V3.4, V4.2, V12.1, 
LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and 
appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. Storification and gamification techniques are 
actively and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme. Students 
are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, 
speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people in 
or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar in use, and the 
social language for the theme and its components such as  “basic food types; ordering in a restaurant; food 
events in the city”  (V3.4, V4.2, V13.1,V13.4, V14.1, V15.5, V17.1, V17.2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1, CS2.20) .  AI-based 
technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They can also 
produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.3, V7.2, 
LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items  (7),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use and practise by 
communicating with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_522 =====
522
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.6.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole speaking-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and 
take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different activities 
for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design.  (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, LS1). 
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To order food in a restaurant in English by using vocabulary and phrases related to food.
Activity 1: Restaurant Role-Play
The teacher provides a sample menu with prices for reference and asks students to work in small groups 
in order to create their own restaurant menus. Menus should include types of food (e.g., appetizers, main 
courses, desserts) with descriptions, images/drawings of food and prices. When the menus are ready, 
the teacher explains the role play activity. The teacher assigns roles within each group: waiter/waitress, 
customers. Each group creates a simple restaurant scenario. The teacher allows groups time to practice 
their role-play scenarios. Each group presents their role-play to the class, simulating a real restaurant 
experience. The teacher encourages other students to observe and give constructive feedback. To reflect 
on their learning experience, students write down one thing they did well and one thing they want to improve 
for next time. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective:  To order food in a restaurant in English by using target vocabulary and phrases related to food.
Activity: Restaurant Role-Play
The teacher provides a sample menu with prices for reference and asks students to work in small groups 
in order to create their own restaurant menus. Menus should include types of food (e.g., appetizers, main 
courses, desserts), images/drawings of food and prices. The teacher gives a list of common phrases and 
vocabulary, visual aids (like picture menAmE.) to support their understanding. When the menus are ready, 
the teacher explains the role play activity. The teacher assigns roles within each group: waiter/waitress, 
customers. Each group creates a simple restaurant scenario. The teacher provides sentence frames to 
help students structure their conversations. (For example: Customer: “Hello! I would like to order the ____”. 
Waiter: “Sure! Would you like anything to eat?” Customer: “Yes, I’ll have a ____”). The teacher allows groups 
time to practice their role-play scenarios. Each group presents their role-play to the class, simulating a real 
restaurant experience. The teacher encourages other students to observe and give constructive feedback. 
To reflect on their learning experience, students write down one thing they did well and one thing they want 
to improve for next time. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_523 =====
523
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 7: LIFE IN NATURE
Sub-themes: Types of animals in nature; wild animals in 
nature; their habitats
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in nature” and covers the sub-
themes of “types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats”. 
These components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning process 
through the contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, 
phonological features, and social language expressions. The learning 
and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, and 
communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ developmental level, 
interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to equip 
learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively use 
English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3.Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8.Questioning
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1 Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2 Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill  
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V9. 
Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, V13. Healthy 
Living, V16. Responsibility, V18. Cleanliness, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS8. Sustainability Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_524 =====
524
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Physical Education and Sports, Visual Arts, 
Music, Information Technologies and Software
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information 
Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. 
Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based 
Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring 
Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. 
Inductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. 
Analogical Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing 
Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical 
Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_525 =====
525
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 5 is structured based on semi-holistic/semi-inductive approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG5.7.L1.  Students can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “life in nature with types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats” 
carefully.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience related to the current theme 
and content by recalling their background knowledge imaginatively in her/his own language 
without speaking it.
b) Students identify significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge and 
experiences and the clues to the current content without translation.
c) Students make predictions about the current content on “life in nature” by using the 
relationships that they recognised accurately by looking at the provided realia, pictures, and 
context.
d) Students make predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/visual 
elements in relation to the current theme.
ENG5.7.L2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “life in nature with types of 
animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats” together through significant details 
and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Students comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole.
b) Students recognise the significant details and components within the whole current content 
by listening (to) and watching it again in a careful manner.
ENG5.7.L3.  Students can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “life in nature with 
types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats” through significant details by 
listening/watching it carefully.
a) Students check any initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals surrounding the current 
content.
b) Students make important and necessary classifications in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
c) Students make important and necessary comparisons in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content with the help of classifications and comparisons made 
earlier.
e) Students make significant inferences that contribute to the understanding of the meaning of 
the generally perceived current content.
f) Students construct the meaning of the current content in detail through the classifications/
comparisons/inferences made earlier in relation to it.
g) Students internalise the current content in an individualised and appropriate way according to 
age and language level.
ENG5.7.L4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully 
about the whole listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content 
on “life in nature with types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats”.
a) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content.

===== PDF_PAGE_526 =====
526
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content by sharing them with others.
ENG5.7.P1.  Students can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“life in nature with types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats” accurately, 
authentically, and naturally through spontaneous decision-making processes and use it in an 
appropriate and effective way when communicating with others.
a) Students listen to the current content by paying attention to the target phonological aspects 
including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Students reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source 
several times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Students recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts.
d) Students recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they 
are heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Students use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG5.7.R1.  Students can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“life in nature with types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats”. 
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content efficiently.
b) Students recognise significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Students make significant preliminary predictions about the current content based on 
recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring the audio-visual 
clues surrounding it.
ENG5.7.R2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “life in nature with types of 
animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats” through skimming (looking quickly at) 
the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Students review the current content by looking at the surrounding audio/visual materials to 
identify what it is about in general through skimming.
b) Students read the current content to scan the major components silently and quickly with the 
help of the clues provided. 
c) Students carefully read the current content silently and carefully to find significant details and 
components belonging to the theme.
ENG5.7.R 3.  Students can make meaning of / derive meaning from the current content about “life in nature 
with types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats” by reading it carefully.
a) Students carefully check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial and detailed 
predictions that are made earlier. 
b) Students classify the significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
c) Students compare significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.

===== PDF_PAGE_527 =====
527
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships within the current 
content that contribute to the perception of the content in a meaningful way.
e) Students make meaningful inferences from the information in the current content by examining 
it carefully.
f) Students internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to age and language level.
ENG5.7.R4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “life in nature with types of 
animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats” in relation to themselves or others, 
both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have 
been carefully examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process.
b) Students convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been carefully 
examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing 
them with others.
c) Students produce new products related to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities. 
ENG5.7.V1.  Students can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “life in nature 
with types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats” accurately, authentically, 
spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating with 
others.
a) Students guess the main topic of the current content from the audio/visual/written elements 
(e.g. sound, voices, scenes, written words) in the contextual material by listening (to)/watching/
reading it several times for recognition.
b) Students recognise sub-themes/key components of the target words to which they belong in 
the current content by scanning.
c) Students recognise the target words related to the main components of the current content 
with the help of the audio/visual/written elements and other clues.
d) Repeating aloud the relevant target key components and target vocabulary in the current 
content with the whole class, in groups, and then individually together with or after listening 
(to)/watching/reading the source material.
e) Students recognise the use of target words and expressions in the current content by making 
various guesses with the help of supplementary elements.
f) Students make context-appropriate selections automatically by associating target words 
with their pre-existing conceptual meanings in the mind without analysing their contextual 
meaning in detail. 
g) Students use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts by being aware of their differences when communicating with others.
ENG5.7.G1.  Students can select and use the target grammatical elements of the current content about 
“life in nature with types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats” accurately, 
authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when 
communicating with others.
a) Being familiar with the current content by listening (to)/watching/reading it a few times 
attentively.
b) Students listen (to)/watch/read the same content, attentively and mindfully, including the use 
of target grammatical chunks presented verbally in context with the help of body language.

===== PDF_PAGE_528 =====
528
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students verbally and automatically repeat simple and meaningful clauses/sentences 
containing target grammatical chunks that they have noticed in the current content that they 
have heard/viewed/read without explicit knowledge of the rules.
d) Students act out physically the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks 
in the current content heard/viewed/read by repeating them several times without knowing, 
analysing, and thinking about their rules.
e) Students see and read the example sentences containing target grammatical chunks provided 
for language awareness carefully.
f) Students gain awareness of clauses/sentences that contain target grammatical chunks that 
are presented for the purpose of raising language awareness.
g) Students recognise the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks when 
they encounter them by seeing and/or hearing them in different contexts.
h) Students use the recognised target grammatical chunks naturally, authentically, and 
automatically in new contextual tasks and activities without analysing their rules.
i) Students produce new and meaningful verbal/written content about the current theme by 
using the target grammatical chunks in meaningful tasks without knowing and analysing their 
rules.
j) Students use the target language chunks authentically, automatically, and naturally in 
communication processes without analysing their rules in meaningful contexts.
ENG5.7.W1.  Students can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “life in 
nature with types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats”.
a) Students relate their pre-existing knowledge and experience used in the initial processes of 
writing-expression skills to the current content by activating them in relation with the current 
content.
b) Students understand what the writing task and its content are in relation to the current 
content correctly by making use of their pre-existing knowledge and experience as guided and 
assigned.
ENG5.7.W2.  Students can understand the model/example for the writing task about the current content on 
“life in nature with types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats”.
a) Students understand the components and details of the content in the provided model/
sample which is displayed as a guide by examining it carefully.
ENG5.7.W3.  Students can organise a content for the assigned writing task on the current content “life in 
nature with types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats” based on the 
model/example provided.
a) Students conduct preliminary research for a prepared writing situation according to the 
current content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
b) Students develop a simple draft for a prepared/or unprepared writing task about the current 
content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
c) Students organise and/or produce materials relevant to the content for a prepared/
unprepared writing task, appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level. 
ENG5.7.W4.  Students can individually construct/form content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “life in nature with types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats”.
a) Students present appropriate and accurate materials for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task about the current theme according to the assigned writing type, age, and language 
level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and rules relevant to the assigned writing 
type for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.

===== PDF_PAGE_529 =====
529
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students use target words and grammatical language chunks accurately and appropriately 
for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task about the current content by selecting them 
according to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
d) Students express important messages in the written current content to the reader accurately 
and appropriately for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
ENG5.7.W5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information in the new written tasks about 
the “life in nature with types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats” to 
communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information in the current content or similar information in a different content 
by internalising and selecting it individually and reorganising it as required and meaningfully in 
different contexts.
b) Students exchange information/ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge meaningfully with others.
ENG5.7.W6.  Students can reflect on their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “life in nature with types of animals 
in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats” in relation to themselves or others, both 
individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in 
relation to the current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in relation to the 
writing-expression process about the current content with others.
c) Students produce new written products related to the current writing-expression content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities.
ENG5.7.S1.  Students can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “life in 
nature with types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats”.
a) Students make connections with the current content by activating their pre-existing 
knowledge and experiences that they have recalled in the listening (to)/watching/reading 
sections previously.
ENG5.7.S2.  Students can use the model/example for producing verbal content about the current content 
on “life in nature with types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats”.
a) Students listen (to)/watch/read the model/example for the current content with the help of 
audio/visual/written elements.
ENG5.7.S3.  Students can organise a new verbal content on “life in nature with types of animals in nature; 
wild animals in nature; their habitats” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students recognise what form and type of content is expected and assigned for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations based on audio/visual/written content as provided in the 
model/example.
b) Students organise the content for prepared/unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate 
and accurate way as they have heard/seen/read in the model/example.
c) Students develop a draft for prepared/unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the 
age and language level as presented in the model/sample content.
d) Students organise supplementary audio/visual/written materials for prepared/or unprepared 
speaking situations, appropriate to age and language level, as provided in the model/sample 
content.
e) Students organise the information about the current content to be presented for prepared/or 
unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate way as required.

===== PDF_PAGE_530 =====
530
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.7.S4.  Students can construct a new verbal content on “life in nature with types of animals in nature; 
wild animals in nature; their habitats” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students use target pronunciation, vocabulary, language chunks, and forms of discourse 
related to the current content effectively by selecting them accurately and appropriately for 
prepared/unprepared speaking situations.
b) Students present individually prepared content in an accurate and efficient way as presented 
in the model/example for prepared speaking situations clearly, efficiently, and appropriately.
c) Students present individually prepared information in an accurate and efficient way as 
presented in the model/example for unprepared speaking situations.
d) Students express the message about the current content clearly to the reader by using all 
supplementary elements and body language in an appropriate and accurate way in context for 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG5.7.S5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information about the “life in nature with types 
of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats” to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information presented in the current content by reorganising it appropriately, 
efficiently, individually, and verbally in different contexts.
b) Students engage in appropriate and efficient verbal communication by sharing the 
reconstructed meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG5.7.S6.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
speaking-expression process about the current content, “life in nature with types of animals in 
nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats” to communicate with other people in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully in 
relation to the speaking-expression process about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_531 =====
531
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN NATURE:
Sub-themes: Types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats
Target Vocabulary in Use:
Vocabulary for types of animals in nature: Nouns: A bird, an insect, a reptile, a mammal. Adjectives: Wild, 
huge, enormous, furry, quiet, scary, quick, strong, dangerous, fast, slow. Body parts of animals: Nouns: A 
tail, a tusk, a paw, a wing.
Vocabulary for wild animals in nature: Nouns: A bear, a lion, a tiger, a wolf, a giraffe, a monkey, an elephant, 
a zebra, a penguin, a parrot, a snake, a crocodile, a gorilla, a leopard, a whale, an eagle, a shark, a seal, a 
seagull. Verbs: To attack, to move, to hunt, to run, to survive, to talk, to fly, to climb, to swing.
Vocabulary for their habitats: Nouns:  A farm, a field, a forest, a jungle, a river, a coast, a savanna (savannah-
AmE), an ocean, the sky, national park.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-“Can” for Capability and Ability: (Tigers can attack their prey in the open savanna.)
-“Must” for External Obligation: (Birds must travel long distances to find warmer habitats during the winter 
months.)
-“Wh- questions” (where): (Where can you find lions in their natural habitat?)
- Comparative and Superlative Adjectives: (A tiger is bigger than a monkey.) (The lion is the strongest animal 
in the forest.)
Functions of the Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of Modal “Can” for Capability and Ability: Expressing the ability of animals or people to to do something 
(to perform an action.
-Use of Modal “Must” for External Obligation: Expressing an obligation or necessity arising from external 
circumstances or rules.
-Use of “Wh- questions” (where): Asking about the location or place where an action occurs or something 
exists.
-Use of Comparative and Superlative Adjectives: Comparing characteristics of animals, things, an/ord people
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”. 
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and  Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage  will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table of contents for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum. 
Target Social Language in Use: 
That is the lion’s share! 
Don’t forget, curiosity killed the cat! 
Please stop crying wolf!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use: 
q, r, s, t, u
Vowel: u: (/juː/, /ʌ/, /juː/)
Consonants: q: /kjuː/, r: /ɑː/(Br), /r/ (AmE);  s: (/s/, /ɛs/, /z/);  t: (/tiː/, /t/)
*Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_532 =====
532
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “life in nature” and its components such as “types of animals in nature; wild 
animals in nature; their habitats” is present in almost all languages. People who start to learn a new language 
bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to their new language learning. For instance, 
a lower secondary school student will know what “life in nature” and its components such as “types of 
animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats” means but will not know how to say them in a foreign 
language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in 
their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more easily in a 
foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts:
animals, nature
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will write a project about wild animals in terms of their living 
conditions and their protection. The project could include Internet search, collecting pictures, recording 
sounds etc. The assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking 
scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “life in nature” and its components such as “types of 
animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats”. As they are lower secondary school students in 
year 5 (five), they can know what “life in nature” and its components such as “types of animals in nature; wild 
animals in nature; their habitats” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people who start 
to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and transfer 
it to their new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these things in a foreign 
language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in 
their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a foreign language, 
in this case, English.
As they are students in year 5 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “life 
in nature” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or years. These 
grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning of the year, and 
they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current theme, so 
that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “life in nature” and its components such as “types of animals in nature; wild animals in 
nature; their habitats”. Recalling and practising with relevant vocabulary and grammatical items in English 
that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current 
content on the concept of “life in nature”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary 
and language chunks from the themes in previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation 
practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much 
they are able to understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in 
the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge 
and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated 
by rubrics throughout these practices).

===== PDF_PAGE_533 =====
533
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Establishing Links
Students can recall the current (theme) concept of “life in nature” and its components such as “types of 
animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats” by remembering their pre-existing background 
knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with the current 
activities in the current theme in English without translating anything until they start learning the target 
words in the current (new) concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
various materials such as short scene from a film, series, a part from a story, a poster etc. which is appropriate 
to the age, level, and pedagogy could be used before the main teaching/learning flow of the class begins. 
They would give a general idea of the theme. Students are facilitated with the relevant materials through 
various activities.  When they have finished working on it, the teacher asks them in English if they understood 
what was it about. For checking their understanding, she can design several activities. For instance, they can 
write a related word that they know in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways can be tried.
The teacher asks them to wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the digital introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any 
further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme  “life in nature” in the classroom, to prepare the students emotionally, 
cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker 
to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This 
could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing 
a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote/a very short story, watching a 
pantomime/cartoon story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require 
any knowledge of English  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4). 
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills  (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection 
and use) are used in an integrated way around “life in nature” and sub-themes “types of animals in nature; 
wild animals in nature; their habitats” , allowing students to build background knowledge through receptive 
skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful 
and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are 
sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely 
linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development and to 
increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a balanced integration of all the skills, 
where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) and 
respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their vocabulary, 
grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG5.7.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: Having seen a visual about and having guessed 
the topic of “life in nature” during the background recall session, students can have a vision of the current 
theme as a general concept in the current  (new) theme  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, V5.2, V9.1, V9.2, V9.3, V13.4, 
V16.2, V18.3, LS1, LS4, LS8, CS2.11, CS2.16.2).  So, a further concept check with listening/watching for gist 
activities including more guessing games using clues from some pictures, realia, short video clips etc. help 
them prepare for the current theme  (CS2.6, CS2.8).  For each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as 
the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through the theme to cover target 

===== PDF_PAGE_534 =====
534
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole 
theme  (CS2.14).  It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. The 
teacher asks them whether their guesses during the background recall session were correct and also what 
they think the introductory digital story that they are going to watch could be about  (CS2.8).  As they have 
already seen a scene from a film about the theme and the pictures, realia, etc. they can easily answer what 
the current theme will be about and that their guesses were true  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.3, V3.4, 
V16.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17). 
ENG5.7.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING: The teacher asks the students to 
watch the introductory digital story carefully, recalling the work done with visuals  (the scene from a film, 
pictures, realia, or video clips about the theme shown earlier)   (CS2.11) .  Students watch the introductory 
digital story to consolidate the identification of the “life in nature”  in it as a whole  (CS2.13) without stopping 
the video at any point, so that the students can understand the theme holistically  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.3,V3.4, 
V5.2, V9.1, V9.2, V9.3, V13.4, V16.2, V18.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.14, CS2.16.2). 
ENG5.7.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw students’ attention to the 
content, some realia brought into the classroom by the teacher could be used  (V5.2, V9.1, V9.2, V9.3, V13.4, 
V16.2, V18.3). The teacher could show the corresponding objects to the students when the corresponding 
vocabulary for the main components of the theme “life in nature” is mentioned in the introductory digital 
story, without stopping the video while the students watch the story  (CS2.6) .  When they have watched 
the whole story, the teacher could show the realia items on the table and ask questions with two options  
(CS2.5).  As one of the words is from the previous themes, students could hear, understand, recognise and 
learn the  (new) target vocabulary for each main component of the theme easily  (CS2.1).  In this way, the 
teacher could engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the components 
of the theme, and that they have understood each realia item is about one component  (CS2.8).  Further 
activities and games can be played at this stage to reinforce the general meaning of the theme through its 
main components  (D1.1, D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4). 
To check whether the students understand the general topic of the theme “life in nature” and remember 
the sequence of the scenes of the introductory digital story, the teacher shows an organiser with the mixed 
images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the students to look at the images/pictures of 
the scenes for a while  (CS2.3).  She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs in their seats with the 
mixed paper pictures she/he has already given to the students  (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS4)  .When the 
pairs have finished sorting the pictures for the scenes of the story, the teacher asks the students to take 
turns or volunteer to sort the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board  (or the pictures on the blackboard)  
(SELS1.2, V11.1, CS2.6, CS2.10).  This will help the students to organise the story as a whole so that they can 
identify the main theme and the components of the theme from their memories  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, V16.3, 
V20.4, CS2.12). 
ENG5.7.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/ W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process   (SELS1.3, V3.4) .  Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3,V12.1).  
The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design  (V10.3). 

===== PDF_PAGE_535 =====
535
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.7.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION : To practise pronunciation of the new target words, word 
groups, language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “life in nature” and the words 
and/or word groups for the sub-themes “types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats”the 
teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the whole or some extracts from the introductory digital story 
by noticing how words are pronounced  (V5.2, V9.1, V9.2, V9.3, V13.4, V16.2, V18.3, LS4, LS8, CS2.6.) She/
He asks them to repeat the word aloud when she/he stops the video for a word and says it. The teacher then 
asks the students to listen and repeat the same words aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to 
the recordings that she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes  (LS2, CS2.16.3) . 
The teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as showing the picture of the target word 
to the students to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the 
recording, and then both  (CS2.8).  To help the students pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks 
them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in 
large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V4.2,V11.1,  
V20.4, LS1, CS2.14). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Practice of pronunciation could be done with different 
forms of TPR, gamification and drama activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words/word groups
for the sub-themes “types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; their habitats” , the students listen  
(CS2.9); then the teacher says the target words/word groups and acts them out, the students repeat after 
her/him  (SELS2.1, CS2.14).  Then the teacher and the students say the target words/word groups and act 
them out together at the same time. Then the teacher says the words/word groups and acts them out. 
These activities can be done through the actions for the sub-themes  (D2.3, D2.5,V5.2, V9.1, V9.2, V9.3, 
V13.4, V16.2, V18.3, LS8).  As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, sadly, 
angrily, etc. using different tones of voice  (SELS2.3, CS2.8, CS2.11).  They also practise for the target social 
language chunks using the same or similar techniques. During the repetitions, they point to relevant pictures 
that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom  (CS2.12).  Some action sequences are also 
created in which the students can practise the social language in a fun way by repeating, pointing, miming, 
and acting out in several games   (SELS2.1, V7.2, LS5, LS9) .  The teacher facilitates some activities with 
dialogues and games in which students can practice the target pronunciation by selecting and using them 
accurately, naturally, and authentically  (CS3.1).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such 
as shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several 
sound drills  (SELS2.2).  The target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are 
practised through them  (CS2.13).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.5, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4).  
ENG5.7.R1
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS: The teacher facilitates reading and writing 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise 
techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the 
theme in various forms and amounts. Reading is done in two ways in the theme by using the written version 
of the introductory digital story and additional reading texts in reading sections of the instructional material 
to be used  (V3.2, LS2, LS4).  Various reading styles including silent reading, speed reading, jigsaw reading 
and basic reading techniques including skimming, scanning, and reading for details during pre-reading, 
while-reading and post-reading phases are used in the theme  (V3.4, LS1, CS2.3, CS2.6) . The ultimate aim 
of reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills and 
critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend and talk/write about the content in a meaningful and 
communicative way  (V3.3, V7.2, CS3.3) .  For the initial stage of reading, the teacher asks the students 
to look at the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) 
surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory story or a new text in the reading section of 

===== PDF_PAGE_536 =====
536
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the conceptual meanings they already have about 
the theme  (CS2.8).  At this stage, the teacher could ask the students to read the title of the theme and ask 
the students which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title  (SELS1.1, 
CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new words or the words they do not know. 
She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity by using the words they know and that there is time 
to work on the new words of the new theme later  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, CS2.10, CS2.12). 
ENG5.7.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING : Students go on with a scanning activity to find 
out the most important details of the introductory digital story and/or a new text in the reading section which 
is organised to help students to know more about the reading content  (CS2.6, CS2.7).  In this way they could 
be able to recognise the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or 
tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned  (quickly read) in the story  (CS2.4).  By doing so, they 
will be able to understand the story/text in general using the main elements  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, V3.4, LS1). 
ENG5.7.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Then the teacher asks the students to do a jigsaw reading activity, 
so she/he shows the written version of the introductory digital story or the text in the reading section on 
the blackboard/Smart Board  (or in any other teaching material).  She/He asks the students to work in pairs 
to share the text  (SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the text and the second peer reads the other 
half of the text in a given time  (CS2.6).  They are then asked to share what they have understood from their 
part with their peer, also in a given time. In this way, they talk about the whole story after reading it silently, 
in the jigsaw reading style  (D2.4, D3.6, V3.4, V4.2, V16.2, LS1, CS2.8, CS2.9).  Some speed-reading activities 
can be used to develop students’ reading and comprehension skills. These activities can be evaluated as 
explained in the item  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After 
sharing their parts, students proceed with the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical 
chunks, and semantic meaning relatively with the help of the teacher  (CS2.14).  For dealing with the semantic 
meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, 
open- ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1).  From display to communicative open-ended, various 
types of questions are used to understand the meaning of the text  (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, CS2.6).  During this 
process students work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings  (D3.2, D3.7, V3.3, 
V7.2, V20.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 
ENG5.7.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process  (SELS1.3).  Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive   (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates 
different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design   (D 2.3,  D3.5 ,  
V4.2,  V6.2,  V10.3,  V12.1,  LS1 ). 
ENG5.7.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY : At this stage, students remember what the 
theme is about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/ 
watching, and pre-reading sessions  (SELS1.1).  As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal with the 
main components and target vocabulary of the theme  (V3.2, LS1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_537 =====
537
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY : A scanning activity to find out the main details of the 
introductory digital story  (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help students to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some important pictures, words or events about the main components 
of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen 
and scanned  (quickly read) in the story. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general 
by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items  (D3.2, D3.6, LS1, LS2, 
LS4,  CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7) Then the students read the written version of the digital story again silently,  (or 
the reading text in the reading section), to check whether they know any of the target vocabulary items 
about the theme  (V16.3, CS2.8) . They underline the words whose meaning they do not know while reading 
silently  (CS2.17).  Students say these words when they finish reading and the teacher writes these words 
on the Smart Board/blackboard/ white board as they say them. The teacher writes only the target words on 
the Smart Board/blackboard as active words that the students have said. She/He quickly deals with the non-
target passive vocabulary items by using pictures, mimics, gestures, imitations, examples, etc. But she/he 
takes time to facilitate the teaching of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.2, V3.3, V3.4, LS2, LS4,CS2.4, CS2.5, 
CS2.7). 
To introduce and practise the meanings of the target vocabulary related to the theme, that the students do 
not know, the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story  (or the video of the reading text 
if there is one) again. From the beginning, whenever a target item is mentioned, the teacher stops the video 
and asks several questions in the form of two options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that 
they already know  (V5.2, V9.1, V9.2, V9.3, V13.4, V16.2, V18.3, LS8, CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what they 
are, the students hear the English equivalents of the words for the theme and they answer as a whole class in 
chorus. In this way, they are introduced to the meanings of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6,D3.7, CS2.10).  This is 
conducted in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (SELS2.1)  (7),  
(8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (V3.3, V3.4,  LS1, 
LS2, LS4).  After having watched the introductory digital story, the teacher shows some pictures for the sub-
themes, on the walls as clues and says the words aloud several times in sentences by pointing to the pictures 
and the students repeat after her/him    (D2.3, V5.2, V9.1, V9.2, V9.3, V13.4, V16.2, V18.3, CS2.6,CS2.11) .  In 
this way, the main vocabulary items of the theme are introduced to the students in English as described in 
item  (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY : The teacher can prepare an activity using the Web 2.0 
programme with images/pictures, and symbolic images for some categories about the components of 
the theme “life in nature” .She/He also prepares mixed images/pictures for target vocabulary items for the 
activities which can be done in relation to the components. She/He asks the students to look at the mixed 
pile of images/pictures of the main components of the theme on the Smart Board screen and scan them for 
a while to remember them  (V5.2, V9.1, V9.2, V9.3, V13.4, V16.2, V18.3, LS8, CS2.4) . She/He explains to the 
students that the items will be placed under the correct category, but first she/he gives the students the 
cut-out pictures of the activities and a large sheet of paper with the categories written on it and the cut-out 
pictures will be placed under each category correctly  (V3.3, L2, LS4, CS2.5) . The teacher asks them to 
work in pairs and place the cut-out pictures in the right category and ask each other some questions about 
the theme  ( D3.2, D3.8,SELS2.2, V5.2, V9.1, V9.2, V9.3, V13.4, V16.2, V18.3, LS8).  When the students have 
finished working with the cut-out pictures and asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks 
them to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures under 
the right category on the screen  (SELS1.2, V3.4,V11.1,  V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures 
that are relevant to the main concept and its components are consolidated through categorisation. This 
activity can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. The 
teacher asks the students to copy the words next to the pictures they have pasted or drawn in their picture 
dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with their peers and check each 
other’s spelling  (D3.2, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS9). To consolidate the meaning, selection, 
and use of the new target vocabulary items, the teacher could organise activities and tasks using pictures, 

===== PDF_PAGE_538 =====
538
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
flashcards, sounds, realia, and any other materials to play games such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, 
Odd One out, Wordscapes, Scrabble, Pictionary, Letter Scramble, Acronyms, Charades etc. Games could be 
adapted according to the teacher’s objectives  (pronunciation, spelling, meaning, selection, use etc.), age, 
interests and language level of the students  (CS2.13).  Students can be asked to create their own games to 
use the target vocabulary items in context  (D2.5, D.3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V4.2,V4.4, V5.2, V9.1, V9.2, V9.3, 
V13.4, V16.2, V18.3, LS8, LS9, CS2.20). Students’ learning can be checked as described in items  (3), and  (4) 
in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG5.7.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS : To draw the students’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme “life in nature” , the introductory digital story or an extract from it played so that the 
students can notice the target language chunks  (D3.2, CS2.2).  While watching the introductory digital story, 
the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by 
showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the students to do the same  (V3.2, LS2, CS2.14).  She could 
hold up large pictures corresponding to the chunks when they are mentioned in the digital story to draw the 
students’ attention. The sentences with the target chunks are also written and placed on the Smart Board/
blackboard/ whiteboard. The teacher also points to these sentences while pointing to the scenes in the story 
where they appear. There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Students can 
automatically and naturally identify the use of the target language chunks in the current context created in 
the introductory digital story without working on any rules or structures  (SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, 
CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  To check the students’ identification of the target language chunks, after the students 
have finished watching the introductory digital story, the teacher asks them to read the sentences with the 
target language chunks written by the teacher on the Smart Board /blackboard/whiteboard and asks them 
to find the same or similar sentences in the written version of the introductory digital story or another text 
that is shown on the Smart Board  (D3.2, SELS3.2, V3.3). She/He also asks them to find the same or similar 
sentences with these chunks which are given in different types of tables prepared by the teacher  (CS2.7).  
These tables do not include any explanations of grammatical rules, explanations, or formulas, and they only 
contain example sentences with target chunks in which important words with the target grammar are written 
in bold or different colours to attract students’ attention. The teacher asks them to look at the words in bold 
or in different colours and asks students to examine them  (CS2.9).  Then the teacher asks the students 
to copy these sentences with target chunks written in bold or different colours into their notebooks. The 
teacher asks the students to make very similar sentences using the target words and asks them to share their 
sentences with each other in pairs, and then with the class  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, D3.2, V4.2, CS2.13,CS2.14, 
CS2.16.1, CS2.16.2) Both the teacher and the class members give feedback to the students as they say their 
sentences  (CS2.19).  The teacher gives all students a checklist with simple symbols to evaluate each other’s 
work as explained in the items  (5) and  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.  (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3 ). 
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate students’ further practice with the target 
language chunks in the theme “life in nature”, the teacher shows some other sentences with these chunks in 
another context such as a short story, a short paragraph, and a short dialogue etc. and asks students to find 
the sentences with the target chunks in them and asks if they understand them   (SELS3.2, V3.3, V5.2, V9.1, 
V9.2, V9.3, V13.4, V16.2, V18.3,LS8, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.8).  She/He gives some written activities and exercises 
to practise the target chunks in context. She/He also facilitates more fun activities and as described in 
items  (5),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. To 
consolidate the target language chunks, the teacher organises different fun activity and game bundles that 
the students can practise and consolidate them  (CS2.13) where their learning can be checked as described 
in item  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (D2.5, V4.4). 

===== PDF_PAGE_539 =====
539
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.7.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION : Practising through writing: Writing activities 
help students  to  produce  and  display  meaningful  written  language  for  their  personal  expression  and 
communication with others, by using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and 
the social language in this theme, as in other themes.  (V3.2, V5.2, V9.1, V9.2, V9.3, V13.4, V16.2, V18.3). 
ENG5.7.W2.
RECOGNISING THE MODEL:  Initially, students produce very limited and short pieces of writing such as 
sentences to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “life in nature”. They practise 
the language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat or simply explain what they hear 
and see in context and what they are asked to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy to be 
able to notice significant points and elements in it  (SELS3.1).  While copying a short model writing, they 
become aware of the aspects such as the use of words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on  
(D3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). 
ENG5.7.W3.
CREATING THE WRITING CONTENT: Controlled writing of words and sentences turns to short paragraphs in 
a process writing manner with the support of the teacher’s feedback in the theme. This process is expanded 
and supported by several practical activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/ 
pantomime/video stories, dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, 
etc. to practise further by writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (D1.3, D3.1, SELS3.2,V3.4, V4.4, V7.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG5.7.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
projects, scripts for plays, diaries/journals, blogs, very short film scenarios, etc. to express their ideas, 
thoughts, and feelings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be contextual, practical, 
authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests and language level.   (V3.4, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, 
LS9). 
ENG5.7.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING: Students  interact  and  communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the language including the target words, language 
chunks, and the social language for the theme in their writing  (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V5.2, V9.1, 
V9.2, V9.3, V13.4, V16.2, V18.3, LS8, LS9,CS2.20). AI- based technologies can be used for various activities, 
giving students access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school 
and at home in a variety of ways  (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3,V7.2, LS2, CS2.20)These activities are evaluated 
as described in items  (11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles  for  the  Implementation  of  the  English  
Curriculum.
ENG5.7.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 

===== PDF_PAGE_540 =====
540
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
about them  (D1.5, SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design.   (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, 
V20.4, LS1). 
ENG5.7.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING: The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from the 
first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance students’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language expressions of the theme .   (V3.2, 
V3.4, V5.2,V9.1, V9.2, V9.3, V13.4, V16.2, V18.3, LS8)
ENG5.7.S2
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL: In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, students 
recognise how the language with the target language items is used  (CS2.6).  They practise the language in a 
controlled way, by telling, repeating, explaining what they hear and see in the context  (D1.3, D3.2, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.4). 
ENG5.7.S3
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT : In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues etc. as new opportunities for the students to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc  (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13). 
ENG5.7.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS:  Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products 
related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact 
with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V5.2, V9.1, V9.2, 
V9.3, V13.4,V16.2, V18.3, LS8, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving 
students access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and 
at home through recordings  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, V7.2,LS2, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG5.7.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Students communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related 
to the theme “life in nature” in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.3, CS2.20).  Picture strip 
stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision  (V3.4, V4.2, V12.1, 
LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and 
appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. Storification and gamification techniques are 
actively and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme. Students 
are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, 
speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people in 
or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar in use, and the 
social language for the theme and its components such as “types of animals in nature; wild animals in nature; 
their habitats” (V3.4, V4.2, V5.2, V9.1,V9.2, V9.3, V13.4, V16.2, V18.3, LS4, LS8, CS3.1, CS2.20) .  AI-based 
technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They can also 
produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.3, V7.2, 
LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items  (7),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles 

===== PDF_PAGE_541 =====
541
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use and practise by 
communicating with others.
ENG5.7.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole speaking-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and 
take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different activities 
for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design.  (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, LS1). 
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To engage in conversations about animals and their habitats in English by using the target 
vocabulary and the grammar chunks (Modal-Can).
Activity 1: Guess who I am!
The teacher divides the class into groups of three/four and distributes a set of picture cards about animals. 
She/He asks the students to make sentences about what type of animal that is (e.g., It is a reptile, It is a bird, 
It is a mammal) and where we can find it in its natural habitat (e.g., We can find it in a forest, We can find it 
in a river) in turns and the other group members to try to guess which animal it is by looking at the picture 
cards (e.g., It is a crocodile, It is a bear, It is a parrot). At the end of the session, the students raise their cards 
including the expressions Good, Very Good, Excellent to show their feelings about the activity. The teacher 
provides constructive feedback to the whole class. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about 
the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To engage in conversations about animals and their habitats in English by using the target 
vocabulary and the grammar chunks (Modal-Can).
Activity 1: Guess who I am!
The teacher divides the class into groups of three/four and distributes a set of picture cards about animals 
(e.g., a bear, a parrot, a crocodile) and slips of paper (e.g., It is a ………. You can find it in a ……...,). She/He asks 
the students to complete the sentences about what type of animal that is (e.g., It is a reptile, It is a bird, It is a 
mammal) and where we can find it in its natural habitat (e.g., We can find it in a forest, We can find it in a river) 
in turns and the other group members to try to guess which animal it is by looking at the picture cards (e.g., 
It is a crocodile, It is a bear, It is a parrot). At the end of the session, the students raise their cards including 
the expressions Good, Very Good, Excellent to show their feelings about the activity. The teacher provides 
constructive feedback
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_542 =====
542
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 8: LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE & FUTURE
Sub-themes: Planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, 
places, activities, and plans for holidays
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in the universe and future” and 
covers the sub-themes of “planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, 
activities, and plans for holidays”. These components (sub-themes) are 
integrated into the learning process through the contextualised use of 
target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and social 
language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed to 
be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within 
and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3.Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1 Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2 Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill   
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, 
V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, V16. 
Responsibility, V18. Cleanliness, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_543 =====
543
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Physical Education and Sports, Visual Arts, 
Music, Information Technologies and Software
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information 
Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. 
Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based 
Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, 
CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing Skill, CS2.20. 
Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_544 =====
544
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 5 is structured based on semi-holistic/semi-inductive approach.
 LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.5.8.L1.  Students can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “life in the universe and future with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, 
activities, and plans for holidays” carefully.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience related to the current theme 
and content by recalling their background knowledge imaginatively in her/his own language 
without speaking it.
b) Students identify significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge and 
experiences and the clues to the current content without translation.
c) Students make predictions about the current content on “life in the universe and future” by 
using the relationships that they recognised accurately by looking at the provided realia, 
pictures, and context.
d) Students make predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/visual 
elements in relation to the current theme.
ENG.5.8.L2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “life in the universe and future 
with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and plans for holidays” together 
through significant details and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Students comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole.
b) Students recognise the significant details and components within the whole current content 
by listening (to) and watching it again in a careful manner.
ENG.5.8.L3.  Students can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “life in the 
universe and future with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and plans 
for holidays” through significant details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Students check any initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals surrounding the current 
content.
b) Students make important and necessary classifications in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
c) Students make important and necessary comparisons in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content with the help of classifications and comparisons made 
earlier.
e) Students make significant inferences that contribute to the understanding of the meaning of 
the generally perceived current content.
f) Students construct the meaning of the current content in detail through the classifications/
comparisons/inferences made earlier in relation to it.
g) Students internalise the current content in an individualised and appropriate way according to 
age and language level.
ENG.5.8.L4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully 
about the whole listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current 
content on “life in the universe and future with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, 
activities, and plans for holidays”.

===== PDF_PAGE_545 =====
545
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content.
b) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content by sharing them with others.
ENG.5.8.P1.  Students can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“life in the universe and future with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, 
and plans for holidays” accurately, authentically, and naturally through spontaneous decision-
making processes and use it in an appropriate and effective way when communicating with 
others.
a) Students listen to the current content by paying attention to the target phonological aspects 
including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Students reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source 
several times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Students recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts.
d) Students recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they 
are heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Students use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.5.8.R1.  Students can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“life in the universe and future with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, 
and plans for holidays”. 
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content efficiently.
b) Students recognise significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Students make significant preliminary predictions about the current content based on 
recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring the audio-visual 
clues surrounding it.
ENG.5.8.R2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “life in the universe and future 
with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and plans for holidays” through 
skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Students review the current content by looking at the surrounding audio/visual materials to 
identify what it is about in general through skimming.
b) Students read the current content to scan the major components silently and quickly with the 
help of the clues provided. 
c) Students carefully read the current content silently and carefully to find significant details and 
components belonging to the theme.
ENG.5.8.R3.  Students can make meaning of / derive meaning from the current content about “life in the 
universe and future with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and plans 
for holidays” by reading it carefully.

===== PDF_PAGE_546 =====
546
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students carefully check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial and detailed 
predictions that are made earlier. 
b) Students classify the significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
c) Students compare significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships within the current 
content that contribute to the perception of the content in a meaningful way.
e) Students make meaningful inferences from the information in the current content by 
examining it carefully.
f) Students internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to age and language level.
ENG.5.8.R 4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “life in the universe and future 
with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and plans for holidays” in 
relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have 
been carefully examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process.
b) Students convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been carefully 
examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing 
them with others.
c) Students produce new products related to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities. 
ENG.5.8.V1.  Students can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “life in the 
universe and future with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and plans 
for holidays” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately 
and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Students guess the main topic of the current content from the audio/visual/written elements 
(e.g. sound, voices, scenes, written words) in the contextual material by listening (to)/watching/
reading it several times for recognition.
b) Students recognise sub-themes/key components of the target words to which they belong in 
the current content by scanning.
c) Students recognise the target words related to the main components of the current content 
with the help of the audio/visual/written elements and other clues.
d) Repeating aloud the relevant target key components and target vocabulary in the current 
content with the whole class, in groups, and then individually together with or after listening 
(to)/watching/reading the source material.
e) Students recognise the use of target words and expressions in the current content by making 
various guesses with the help of supplementary elements.
f) Students make context-appropriate selections automatically by associating target words 
with their pre-existing conceptual meanings in the mind without analysing their contextual 
meaning in detail. 
g) Students use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts by being aware of their differences when communicating with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_547 =====
547
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.5.8.G1.  Students can select and use the target grammatical elements of the current content about 
“life in the universe and future with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, 
and plans for holidays” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it 
appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Being familiar with the current content by listening (to)/watching/reading it a few times 
attentively.
b) Students listen (to)/watch/read the same content, attentively and mindfully, including the use 
of target grammatical chunks presented verbally in context with the help of body language.
c) Students verbally and automatically repeat simple and meaningful clauses/sentences 
containing target grammatical chunks that they have noticed in the current content that they 
have heard/viewed/read without explicit knowledge of the rules.
d) Students act out physically the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks 
in the current content heard/viewed/read by repeating them several times without knowing, 
analysing, and thinking about their rules.
e) Students see and read the example sentences containing target grammatical chunks provided 
for language awareness carefully.
f) Students gain awareness of clauses/sentences that contain target grammatical chunks that 
are presented for the purpose of raising language awareness.
g) Students recognise the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks when 
they encounter them by seeing and/or hearing them in different contexts.
h) Students use the recognised target grammatical chunks naturally, authentically, and 
automatically in new contextual tasks and activities without analysing their rules.
i) Students produce new and meaningful verbal/written content about the current theme by 
using the target grammatical chunks in meaningful tasks without knowing and analysing their 
rules.
j) Students use the target language chunks authentically, automatically, and naturally in 
communication processes without analysing their rules in meaningful contexts.
ENG.5.8.W1.  Students can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “life 
in the universe and future with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and 
plans for holidays”.
a) Students relate their pre-existing knowledge and experience used in the initial processes of 
writing-expression skills to the current content by activating them in relation with the current 
content.
b) Students understand what the writing task and its content are in relation to the current 
content correctly by making use of their pre-existing knowledge and experience as guided and 
assigned.
ENG.5.8.W2.  Students can understand the model/example for the writing task about the current content on 
“life in the universe and future with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, 
and plans for holidays”.
a) Students understand the components and details of the content in the provided model/
sample which is displayed as a guide, by examining it carefully.
ENG.5.8.W3.  Students can organise a content for the assigned writing task on the current content “life in 
the universe and future with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and 
plans for holidays” based on the model/example provided.
a) Students conduct preliminary research for a prepared writing situation according to the 
current content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_548 =====
548
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students develop a simple draft for a prepared/or unprepared writing task about the current 
content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
c) Students organise and/or produce materials relevant to the content for a prepared/
unprepared writing task, appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level. 
ENG.5.8.W4.  Students can individually construct/form content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “life in the universe and future with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, 
activities, and plans for holidays”.
a) Students present appropriate and accurate materials for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task about the current theme according to the assigned writing type, age, and language 
level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and rules relevant to the assigned writing 
type for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language chunks accurately and appropriately 
for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task about the current content by selecting them 
according to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
d) Students express important messages in the written current content to the reader accurately 
and appropriately for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
ENG.5.8.W5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information in the new written tasks about the 
“life in the universe and future with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, 
and plans for holidays” to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information in the current content or similar information in a different content 
by internalising and selecting it individually and reorganising it as required and meaningfully in 
different contexts.
b) Students exchange information/ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge meaningfully with others.
ENG.5.8.W6.  Students can reflect on their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “life in the universe and future with 
planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and plans for holidays” in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in 
relation to the current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in relation to the 
writing-expression process about the current content with others.
c) Students produce new written products related to the current writing-expression content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities.
ENG.5.8.S1.  Students can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “life 
in the universe and future with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and 
plans for holidays”.
a) Students make connections with the current content by activating their pre-existing 
knowledge and experiences that they have recalled in the listening (to)/watching/reading 
sections previously.
ENG.5.8.S2.  Students can use the model/example for producing verbal content about the current content 
on “life in the universe and future with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, 
activities, and plans for holidays”.
a) Students listen (to)/watch/read the model/example for the current content with the help of 
audio/visual/written elements.

===== PDF_PAGE_549 =====
549
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.5.8.S3.  Students can organise a new verbal content on “life in the universe and future with planet Earth; 
holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and plans for holidays” by speaking accurately, 
efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students recognise what form and type of content is expected and assigned for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations based on audio/visual/written content as provided in the 
model/example.
b) Students organise the content for prepared/unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate 
and accurate way as they have heard/seen/read in the model/example.
c) Students develop a draft for prepared/unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the age 
and language level as presented in the model/sample content.
d) Students organise supplementary audio/visual/written materials for prepared/or unprepared 
speaking situations, appropriate to age and language level, as provided in the model/sample 
content.
e) Students organise the information about the current content to be presented for prepared/or 
unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate way as required.
ENG.5.8.S4.  Students can construct a new verbal content on “life in the universe and future with planet 
Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and plans for holidays” by speaking 
accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students use target pronunciation, vocabulary, language chunks, and forms of discourse 
related to the current content effectively by selecting them accurately and appropriately for 
prepared/unprepared speaking situations.
b) Students present individually prepared content in an accurate and efficient way as presented 
in the model/example for prepared speaking situations clearly, efficiently, and appropriately.
c) Students present individually prepared information in an accurate and efficient way as 
presented in the model/example for unprepared speaking situations.
d) Students express the message about the current content clearly to the reader by using all 
supplementary elements and body language in an appropriate and accurate way in context for 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.5.8.S5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information about the “life in the universe and 
future with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and plans for holidays” 
to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information presented in the current content by reorganising it appropriately, 
efficiently, individually, and verbally in different contexts.
b) Students engage in appropriate and efficient verbal communication by sharing the 
reconstructed meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.5.8.S6.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
speaking-expression process about the current content, “life in the universe and future 
with planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and plans for holidays” to 
communicate with other people in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or 
with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully in 
relation to the speaking-expression process about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_550 =====
550
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE & FUTURE
Sub-theme: Planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and plans for holidays
Target Vocabulary in Use:
Vocabulary for Planet Earth:  Nouns: A climate, a continent, a desert, a valley, a lake, an ocean, a rock, a 
season, sky, a temperature, a sand dune, a river, a coral reef, a canyon, an island. Verbs: To rise.
Vocabulary for school holidays: Nouns: Tourism, a summer/winter/spring/half-term holiday. Verbs: To pack, 
to recommend, to need, to explore, to visit. Adjectives: Fun, peaceful, historical, magical, amazing, historical, 
famous, calm. Prepositions: Including.
Vocabulary for school holidays, places, activities, and plans for holidays: Nouns: An opportunity, a tower, a 
tour, a journey, a trip, sightseeing, a holiday (vacation-AmE), a beach, a museum, a zoo, an amusement park, 
a view, a bridge, a jolly, a seaside, a destination, a sandcastle, a seashell. Verbs: To invite, to involve, to rest, 
to book, to relax.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-“Be Going to Future Tense” for plans: (My family is going to spend the holiday watching documentaries about 
life in the universe).
Functions of the Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of “Be Going to Future Tense” for plans: Expressing actions and/or events that have already planned 
and/or likely to happen in the future.
Target Social Language in Use: 
Let’s take a stroll!
Let’s take a breather during the holiday! 
We’re going on a jolly to the seaside!
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations:  “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”. 
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and  Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage  will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table of contents for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum. 
Target Phonological Sounds in Use: 
v, w, x, y, z
Consonants:  v: (/viː/, /v/); w: (/w/); x: (/ɛks/, /ks/,  /gz/); y: (/waɪ/), /j/, /ɪ/, /iː/); z: /zed/ (Br), /ziː/, (AmE), /z/).
*(Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme.)

===== PDF_PAGE_551 =====
551
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “life in the universe and future” and its components such as “planet Earth; 
holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and plans for holidays” is present in almost all languages. People 
who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to their new 
language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what “life in the universe and 
future” and its components such as “planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and plans for 
holidays” means but will not know how to say them in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in 
their existing curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, 
understand, and learn the new information more easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts:
Planet Earth; holidays, school holidays, places, activities, plans, places, activities, and plans for holidays.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT:  Students will create a project about their dream summer holiday. The 
project will include an internet search to find interesting places, collecting pictures, and recording sounds 
that represent their ideal holiday. They can also add short descriptions and creative elements to show 
what activities, places, and experiences they would like to enjoy during their dream summer vacation. The 
assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “life in the universe and future” and its components 
such as “planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and plans for holidays”. As they are 
lower secondary school students in year 5 (five), they can know what “life in the universe and future” and 
its components mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people who start to learn a new 
language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and transfer it to their new 
language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these things in a foreign language if 
this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own 
language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a foreign language, in this case 
English.
As they are students in year 5 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “life 
in the universe and future” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or 
years. These grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning 
of the year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the 
current theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about the “life in the universe and future” and its components such as “planet Earth; holidays; school 
holidays, places, activities, and plans for holidays”. Recalling and practising with relevant vocabulary and 
grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as a basis for moving 
on and learning the current content on the concept of “life in the universe and future”. Therefore, a dialogue 
game can be played to revise all vocabulary and language chunks from the previous themes in previous years 
by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by 
seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to understand and use the previously learnt 
vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise 
or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the 
current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics throughout these practices.)

===== PDF_PAGE_552 =====
552
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Establishing Links
Students can recall the current (theme) concept of “life in the universe and future” and its components such 
as “planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places, activities, and plans for holidays” by remembering their 
pre-existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make 
links with the current activities in the current theme in English without translating anything until they start 
learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
various materials such as short scene from a film, series, a part from a story, a poster etc. which is appropriate 
to the age, level, and pedagogy could be used before the main teaching/learning flow of the class begins. 
They would give a general idea of the theme. Students are facilitated with the relevant materials through 
various activities.  When they have finished working on it, the teacher asks them in English if they understood 
what was it about. For checking their understanding, she can design several activities. For instance, they 
can write a related word that they know in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways can be tried.
The teacher asks them to wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the digital introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any 
further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme “life in the universe and future” in the classroom, to prepare the students 
emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an 
icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-
being. This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/
rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote/a very short story, 
watching a pantomime/cartoon story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does 
not require any knowledge of English  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4). 
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills  (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around “life in the universe and future” and sub-themes “planet Earth; 
holidays; school holidays, places,activities, and plans for holidays”, allowing students to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG5.8.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: Having seen a visual about and having guessed 
the topic of “life in the universe and future” during the background recall session, students can have a vision 
of the current theme as a general concept in the current  (new) theme  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, V5.1, V5.2, V9.3, 
V16.2,V16.3, V18.3, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.11, CS2.16.2). So, a further concept check with listening/watching for 
gist activities including more guessing games using clues from some pictures, realia, short video clips etc. 
help them prepare for the current theme  (CS2.6, CS2.8).  For each theme, a digitally constructed story is 
used as the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through the theme to cover 

===== PDF_PAGE_553 =====
553
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
target pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole 
theme  (CS2.14).  It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. The 
teacher asks them whether their guesses during the background recall session were correct and also what 
they think the introductory digital story that they are going to watch could be about  (CS2.8).  As they have 
already seen a scene from a film about the theme and the pictures, realia, etc. they can easily answer what 
the current theme will be about and that their guesses were true  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2,SELS1.2, V3.3, 
V3.4,LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17). 
ENG5.8.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING: The teacher asks the students to 
watch the introductory digital story carefully, recalling the work done with visuals  (the scene from a film, 
pictures, realia, or video clips about the theme shown earlier)   (CS2.11 ).  Students watch the introductory 
digital story to consolidate the identification of the theme’’ s life in the universe and future ‘’ in it as a whole  
(CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that the students can understand the theme holistically  
(D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.3, V3.4, V5.1, V5.2, V9.3, V16.2, V16.3,V18.3, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.14, CS2.16.2). 
ENG5.8.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw students’ attention to the 
content, some realia brought into the classroom by the teacher could be used  (V5.1, V5.2, V9.3, V16.2, V16.3, 
V18.3, LS5).  The teacher could show the corresponding objects to the students when the corresponding 
vocabulary for the main components of the theme “life in the universe and future” is mentioned in the 
introductory digital story, without stopping the video while the students watch the story  (CS2.6).  When they 
have watched the whole story, the teacher could show the realia items on the table and ask questions with 
two options  (CS2.5).  As one of the words is from the previous themes, students could hear, understand, 
recognise and learn the  (new) target vocabulary for each main component of the theme easily  (CS2.1).  In 
this way, the teacher could engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the 
components of the theme, and that they have understood each realia item is about one component  (CS2.8).  
Further activities and games can be played at this stage to reinforce the general meaning of the theme 
through its main components  (D1.1, D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4). 
To check whether the students understand the general topic of the theme “life in the universe and future” 
and remember the sequence of the scenes of the introductory digital story, the teacher shows an organiser 
with the mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the students to look at the 
images/pictures of the scenes for a while  (CS2.3).  She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs in 
their seats with the mixed paper pictures she/he has already given to the students  (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, 
LS1, LS4). When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for the scenes of the story, the teacher asks the 
students to take turns or volunteer to sort the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board  (or the pictures on 
the blackboard)  (SELS1.2, V11.1 , CS2.6, CS2.10).  This will help the students to organise the story as a whole 
so that they can identify the main theme and the components of the theme from their memories  (D1.2, D1.6, 
D2.3, V16.3, V20.4, CS2.12). 
ENG5.8.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/ W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process   (SELS1.3, V3.4) . Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, LS5 ).  
The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative 
design  (V10.3). 

===== PDF_PAGE_554 =====
554
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.8.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: To practise pronunciation of the new target words, word groups, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “life in the universe and future” and the 
words and/or word groups for the sub-themes “planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places,activities, and 
plans for holidays” , the teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the whole or some extracts from 
the introductory digital story by noticing how words are pronounced  (V3.3, V5.1, V5.2, V9.3,V16.2, V16.3, 
V18.3, LS4, LS5, CS2.6) .  She/He asks them to repeat the word aloud when she/he stops the video for a 
word and says it. The teacher then asks the students to listen and repeat the same words aloud a few times 
as a whole class after listening to the recordings that she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 
programmes  (LS2, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as showing the 
picture of the target word to the students to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when 
they hear the word from the recording, and then both  (CS2.8).  To help the students pronounce the words 
accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/
him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers  (D3.2, D3.6, 
SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, CS2.14). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Practice of pronunciation could be done with different 
forms of TPR, gamification and drama activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words/word groups
for the sub-themes “planet Earth; holidays; school holidays, places,activities, and plans for holidays”, 
the students listen  (CS2.9); then the teacher says the target words/word groups and acts them out, the 
students repeat after her/him  (SELS2.1, CS2.14).  Then the teacher and the students say the target words/
word groups and act them out together at the same time. Then the teacher says the words/word groups and 
acts them out. These activities can be done through the actions for the sub-themes  (D2.3, D2.5, V3.3, V5.1, 
V5.2, V9.3, V16.2,V16.3, V18.3, LS5).  As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, 
sadly, angrily, etc. using different tones of voice  (SELS2.3, CS2.8, CS2.11).  They also practise for the target 
social language chunks using the same or similar techniques. During the repetitions, they point to relevant 
pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom  (CS2.12).  Some action sequences 
are also created in which the students can practise the social language in a fun way by repeating, pointing, 
miming, and acting out in several games   (SELS2.1, V7.2, LS5,  LS9). The teacher facilitates some activities 
with dialogues and games in which students can practice the target pronunciation by selecting and using 
them accurately, naturally, and authentically  (CS3.1).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, 
such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several 
sound drills  (SELS2.2).  The target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are 
practised through them  (CS2.13).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.5, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4).  
ENG5.8.R1
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS: The teacher facilitates reading and writing 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise 
techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the 
theme in various forms and amounts. Reading is done in two ways in the theme by using the written version 
of the introductory digital story and additional reading texts in reading sections of the instructional material 
to be used  (V3.2, LS2, LS4) .  Various reading styles including silent reading, speed reading, jigsaw reading 
and basic reading techniques including skimming, scanning, and reading for details during pre-reading, 
while-reading and post-reading phases are used in the theme   (V3.4, LS1, CS2.3, CS2.6) . The ultimate aim 
of reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills and 
critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend and talk/write about the content in a meaningful and 
communicative way  (V3.3, V7.2, LS5, CS3.3). For the initial stage of reading, the teacher asks the students 
to look at the audio/visual/written elements
 (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) surrounding the written version of the contextual 

===== PDF_PAGE_555 =====
555
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
introductory story or a new text in the reading section of the instructional material to be used for skimming 
to recall the conceptual meanings they already have about the theme  (CS2.8).  At this stage, the teacher 
could ask the students to read the title of the theme and ask the students which words they already know, 
and which come to mind in connection with the title  (SELS1.1, CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask 
the meanings of any new words or the words they do not know. She/He reminds them that this is just a 
guessing activity by using the words they know and that there is time to work on the new words of the new 
theme later  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, CS2.10, CS2.12). 
ENG5.8.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING : Students go on with a scanning activity to find 
out the most important details of the introductory digital story and/or a new text in the reading section which 
is organised to help students to know more about the reading content  (CS2.6, CS2.7).  In this way they could 
be able to recognise the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or 
tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned  (quickly read) in the story  (CS2.4).  By doing so, they 
will be able to understand the story/text in general using the main elements  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, V3.4, LS1). 
ENG5.8.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Then the teacher asks the students to do a jigsaw reading activity, 
so she/he shows the written version of the introductory digital story or the text in the reading section on the 
blackboard/Smart Board  (or in any other teaching material).  She/He asks the students to work in pairs to 
share the text  (SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the text and the second peer reads the other half 
of the text in a given time  (CS2.6).  They are then asked to share what they have understood from their part 
with their peer, also in a given time. In this way, they talk about the whole story after reading it silently, in the 
jigsaw reading style  (D2.4, D3.6, V3.4, V4.2, V16.2, LS1, LS6,CS2.8, CS2.9) .  Some speed-reading activities 
can be used to develop students’ reading and comprehension skills. These activities can be evaluated as 
explained in the item  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After 
sharing their parts, students proceed with the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical 
chunks, and semantic meaning relatively with the help of the teacher  (CS2.14).  For dealing with the semantic 
meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, 
open- ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1).  From display to communicative open-ended, various 
types of questions are used to understand the meaning of the text  (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, CS2.6).  During this 
process students work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings  (D3.2, D3.7, V3.3, 
V7.2, V20.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 
ENG5.8.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process  (SELS1.3).  Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive   (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates 
different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design   (D 2.3, D3.5, 
V4.2, V6.2, V10.3, V12.1, LS1 ). 
ENG5.8.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY : At this stage, students remember what the 
theme is about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/ 
watching, and pre-reading sessions  (SELS1.1).  As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal with the 
main components and target vocabulary of the theme  (V3.2, LS1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_556 =====
556
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY : A scanning activity to find out the main details of the 
introductory digital story  (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help students to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some important pictures, words or events about the main components 
of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen 
and scanned  (quickly read) in the story. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general 
by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items  (D3.2, D3.6, LS1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7)Then the students read the written version of the digital story again silently,  
(or the reading text in the reading section), to check whether they know any of the target vocabulary items 
about the theme  (CS2.8). They underline the words whose meaning they do not know while reading silently  
(CS2.17).  Students say these words when they finish reading and the teacher writes these words on the 
Smart Board/blackboard/ white board as they say them. The teacher writes only the target words on the 
Smart Board/blackboard as active words that the students have said. She/He quickly deals with the non-
target passive vocabulary items by using pictures, mimics, gestures, imitations, examples, etc. But she/he 
takes time to facilitate the teaching of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.2, V3.3, V3.4, LS2, LS4,CS2.4, CS2.5, 
CS2.7). 
To introduce and practise the meanings of the target vocabulary related to the theme, that the students do 
not know, the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story  (or the video of the reading 
text if there is one) again. From the beginning, whenever a target item is mentioned, the teacher stops the 
video and asks several questions in the form of two options, one of which is a word from the previous themes 
that they already know  (V5.1, V5.2, V9.3, V16.2, V16.3, V18.3, LS5, CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what they 
are, the students hear the English equivalents of the words for the theme and they answer as a whole class 
in chorus. In this way, they are introduced to the meanings of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6,D3.7, CS2.10).  This 
is conducted in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (SELS2.1)  
(7),  (8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (V3.3, V3., LS1, 
LS2, LS4).  After having watched the introductory digital story, the teacher shows some pictures for the sub-
themes, on the walls as clues and says the words aloud several times in sentences by pointing to the pictures 
and the students repeat after her/him  (D2.3, V5.1, V5.2, V9.3, V16.2, V16.3, V18.3, LS5, CS2.6, CS2.11).  In this 
way, the main vocabulary items of the theme are introduced to the students in English as described in item  
(3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY : The teacher can prepare an activity using the Web 2.0 
programme with images/pictures, and symbolic images for some categories about the components of the 
theme “life in the universe and future” .She/He also prepares mixed images/pictures for target vocabulary 
items for the activities which can be done in relation to the components. She/He asks the students to look 
at the mixed pile of images/pictures of the main components of the theme on the Smart Board screen and 
scan them for a while to remember them  (V5.1, V5.2, V9.3, V16.2, V16.3, V18.3, LS5,CS2.4).  She/He explains 
to the students that the items will be placed under the correct category, but first she/he gives the students 
the cut-out pictures of the activities and a large sheet of paper with the categories written on it and the cut-
out pictures will be placed under each category correctly  (V3.3, L2, LS4, CS2.5). The teacher asks them to 
work in pairs and place the cut-out pictures in the right category and ask each other some questions about 
the theme  (D3.2, D3.8, SELS2.2, V5.1, V5.2,V9.3, V16.2, V16.3, V18.3, LS5).  When the students have finished 
working with the cut-out pictures and asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them 
to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures under the 
right category on the screen  (SELS1.2, V3.4, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are 
relevant to the main concept and its components are consolidated through categorisation. This activity can 
be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. The teacher asks 
the students to copy the words next to the pictures they have pasted or drawn in their picture dictionaries and 
then asks them to exchange their picture dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling  (D3.2, 
SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS9). To consolidate the meaning, selection, and use of the new target 
vocabulary items, the teacher could organise activities and tasks using pictures, flashcards, sounds, realia, 

===== PDF_PAGE_557 =====
557
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
and any other materials to play games such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, Wordscapes, 
Scrabble, Pictionary, Letter Scramble, Acronyms, Charades etc. Games could be adapted according to the 
teacher’s objectives  (pronunciation, spelling, meaning, selection, use etc.), age, interests and language level 
of the students  (CS2.13).  Students can be asked to create their own games to use the target vocabulary 
items in context  (D2.5, D.3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V4.2,V4.4, V5.1, V5.2, V9.3, V16.2, V16.3, V18.3, LS5, LS9, 
CS2.20).  Students’ learning can be checked as described in items  (3), and  (4) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG5.8.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS : To draw the students’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme “life in the universe and future” the introductory digital story or an extract from it played 
so that the students can notice the target language chunks  (D3.2, CS2.2).  While watching the introductory 
digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates 
the action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the students to do the same   (V3.2, LS2, 
CS2.14). She could hold up large pictures corresponding to the chunks when they are mentioned in the digital 
story to draw the students’ attention. The sentences with the target chunks are also written and placed on 
the Smart Board/blackboard/ whiteboard. The teacher also points to these sentences while pointing to the 
scenes in the story where they appear. There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this 
stage. Students can automatically and naturally identify the use of the target language chunks in the current 
context created in the introductory digital story without working on any rules or structures  (SELS3.1, V3.4, 
LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  To check the students’ identification of the target language chunks, 
after the students have finished watching the introductory digital story, the teacher asks them to read 
the sentences with the target language chunks written by the teacher on the Smart Board /blackboard/
whiteboard and asks them to find the same or similar sentences in the written version of the introductory 
digital story or another text that is shown on the Smart Board  (D3.2, SELS3.2, V3.3). She/He also asks them 
to find the same or similar sentences with these chunks which are given in different types of tables prepared 
by the teacher  (CS2.7).  These tables do not include any explanations of grammatical rules, explanations, 
or formulas, and they only contain example sentences with target chunks in which important words with the 
target grammar are written in bold or different colours to attract students’ attention. The teacher asks them 
to look at the words in bold or in different colours and asks students to examine them  (CS2.9).  Then the 
teacher asks the students to copy these sentences with target chunks written in bold or different colours 
into their notebooks. The teacher asks the students to make very similar sentences using the target words 
and asks them to share their sentences with each other in pairs, and then with the class  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, 
D3.2, V4.2, CS2.13,CS2.14, CS2.16.1, CS2.16.2) Both the teacher and the class members give feedback to 
the students as they say their sentences  (CS2.19).  The teacher gives all students a checklist with simple 
symbols to evaluate each other’s work as explained in the items  (5) and  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3 ). 
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate students’ further practice with the target 
language chunks in the theme “life in the universe and future”, the teacher shows some other sentences 
with these chunks in another context such as a short story, a short paragraph, and a short dialogue etc. 
and asks students to find the sentences with the target chunks in them and asks if they understand them  
(SELS3.2, V3.3, V5.1, V5.2,V9.3, V16.2, V16.3, V18.3, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.8).  She/He gives some written 
activities and exercises to practise the target chunks in context. She/He also facilitates more fun activities 
and as described in items  (5),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum. To consolidate the target language chunks, the teacher organises different fun activity 
and game bundles that the students can practise and consolidate them  (CS2.13) where their learning can 
be checked as described in item  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum  (D2.5, V4.4). 

===== PDF_PAGE_558 =====
558
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.8.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION : Practising through writing: Writing activities 
help students  to  produce  and  display  meaningful  written  language  for  their  personal  expression  and 
communication with others, by using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and 
the social language in this theme, as in other themes.  (V3.2, V5.1, V5.2, V9.3, V16.2, V16.3,V18.3, LS5). 
ENG5.8.W2.
RECOGNISING THE MODEL:  Initially, students produce very limited and short pieces of writing such as 
sentences to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “life in the universe and future”. 
They practise the language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat or simply explain 
what they hear and see in context and what they are asked to do. They are provided a written model/example 
to copy to be able to notice significant points and elements in it  (SELS3.1).  While copying a short model 
writing, they become aware of the aspects such as the use of words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling 
and so on  (D3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). 
ENG5.8.W3.
CREATING THE WRITING CONTENT: Controlled writing of words and sentences turns to short paragraphs in 
a process writing manner with the support of the teacher’s feedback in the theme. This process is expanded 
and supported by several practical activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/ 
pantomime/video stories, dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, 
etc. to practise further by writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (D1.3, D3.1, SELS3.2,V3.4, V4.4, V7.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG5.8.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
projects, scripts for plays, diaries/journals, blogs, very short film scenarios, etc. to express their ideas, 
thoughts, and feelings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be contextual, practical, 
authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests and language level.   (V3.4, V7.2, V9.3, V12.1, LS1, 
LS4, LS9). 
ENG5.8.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING: Students  interact  and  communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the language including the target words, language 
chunks, and the social language for the theme in their writing  (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V5.1,V5.2, 
V9.3, V16.2, V16.3, V18.3, LS5, LS9, CS2.20).  AI- based technologies can be used for various activities, giving 
students access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and 
at home in a variety of ways  (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3,V7.2, LS2, CS2.20) These activities are evaluated 
as described in items  (11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles  for  the  Implementation  of  the  English  
Curriculum.
ENG5.8.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 

===== PDF_PAGE_559 =====
559
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
about them  (D1.5, SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design.   (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, 
V20.4, LS1). 
ENG5.8.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING: The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from the 
first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance students’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language expressions of the theme .   (V3.2, 
V3.4, V5.1, V5.2, V9.3, V16.2, V16.3, V18.3, LS5). 
ENG5.8.S2
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL: In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, students 
recognise how the language with the target language items is used  (CS2.6).  They practise the language in a 
controlled way, by telling, repeating, explaining what they hear and see in the context  (D1.3, D3.2, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.4). 
ENG5.8.S3
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues etc. as new opportunities for the students to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc  (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13). 
ENG5.8.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS:  Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products 
related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact 
with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2,V4.2, V5.1, V5.2, V9.3, 
V16.2, V16.3, V18.3, LS5, CS2.20).  AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students 
access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home 
through recordings  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, V7.2,LS2, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG5.8.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Students communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to 
the theme “life in the universe and future” in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.3, CS2.20).  
Picture strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision  (V3.4, 
V4.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, 
real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. Storification and gamification 
techniques are actively and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the 
theme. Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such 
as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar in 
use, and the social language for the theme and its components .  (V3.4, V4.2, V5.1, V5.2, V9.3, V16.2, V16.3, 
V18.3, LS4, LS5, CS3.1, CS2.20) .  AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students 
access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home 
through recordings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.3, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items  (7),  
(8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can 
expand their language use and practise by communicating with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_560 =====
560
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG5.8.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole speaking-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and 
take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different activities 
for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design.  (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, LS1). 
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To engage in conversations and to foster creativity about holidays and holiday plans in English by 
using the target vocabulary and grammar chunks (Be going to Future Tense).
Activity 1: That’s so fun!
The teacher writes some words related to holiday plans (e.g., a tower, a museum, a desert, a lake, sky) on slips 
of paper and places them into a box. She/He divides the class into groups of three/four and distributes the 
boxes to each group. Then the students are asked to make sentences about their holiday plans by choosing 
the words from the box for each student in the group and one of the plans is going to be really fun. When 
they finish writing, each group is invited to the board to share their plans with the classmates (e.g., We are 
going to climb up a tower., We are going to visit a museum., We are going to watch the sky in a desert., We are 
going to swim in the sea with dolphins). Every one of the students tells a plan. The rest of the class is provided 
with a form including five stars, which can be used to evaluate pair/group performance. They will be engaged 
while listening to their classmates by colouring the stars to choose the most fun plan. The teacher provides 
constructive feedback to each group. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To engage in conversations and to foster creativity about holidays and holiday plans in English by 
using the target vocabulary and the grammar chunks (Be going to Future Tense).
Activity 1: That’s so fun!
The teacher writes some phrases related to holiday plans (e.g., climb up a tower, visit a museum, go to a park, 
watch the sky in a desert, swim in the sea with dolphins) on slips of paper and place them into a box. She/He 
divides the class into groups of three/four and distributes the boxes to each group. Then the students are 
asked to make sentences about their holiday plans by choosing the phrases from the box for each student in 
the group. When they finish writing, each group is invited to the board to share their plans with the classmates 
(e.g., We are going to climb up a tower, We are going to visit a museum., We are going to watch the sky in a 
desert., We are going to swim in the sea with dolphins.). Every one of the students tells a plan. The rest of 
the class is provided with a form including five stars, which can be used to evaluate pair/group performance. 
They will be engaged while listening to their classmates by colouring the stars to choose the most fun plan. 
The teacher provides constructive feedback to each group. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings 
about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_561 =====
561
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
YEAR 6 
 (LEVEL: A2.2) 
THEME 1: SCHOOL LIFE
Sub-themes: Roles, and responsibilities at school; 
school routines; national days and celebrations
This theme is centred on the concept of “school life” and covers the sub-themes 
of “roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and 
celebrations”. These components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning 
process through the contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical 
structures, phonological features, and social language expressions. The 
learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, 
and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ developmental 
level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to 
equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively 
use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill        
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V9. 
Compassion, V10. Modesty, V12. Patience, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, 
V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_562 =====
562
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Physical Education and Sports, Visual Arts, 
Music, Information Technologies and Software
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering 
Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, 
CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. 
Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation 
Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, 
CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_563 =====
563
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 6 is structured based on semi-holistic/semi-inductive approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.6.1.L1.  Students can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “school life with roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days 
and celebrations” carefully.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience related to the current theme 
and content by recalling their background knowledge imaginatively in her/his own language 
without speaking it.
b) Students identify significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge and 
experiences and the clues to the current content without translation.
c) Students make predictions about the current content on “school life” by using the relationships 
that they recognised accurately by looking at the provided realia, pictures, and context.
d) Students make predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/visual 
elements in relation to the current theme.
ENG.6.1.L2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “school life with roles, and 
responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and celebrations” together through 
significant details and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Students comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole.
b) Students recognise the significant details and components within the whole current content 
by listening (to) and watching it again in a careful manner.
ENG.6.1.L3.  Students can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “school life with 
roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and celebrations” through 
significant details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Students check any initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals surrounding the current 
content.
b) Students make important and necessary classifications in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
c) Students make important and necessary comparisons in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content with the help of classifications and comparisons made 
earlier.
e) Students make significant inferences that contribute to the understanding of the meaning of 
the generally perceived current content.
f) Students construct the meaning of the current content in detail through the classifications/
comparisons/inferences made earlier in relation to it.
g) Students internalise the current content in an individualised and appropriate way according to 
age and language level.
ENG.6.1.L4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully 
about the whole listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content 
on “school life with roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and 
celebrations”.
a) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content.

===== PDF_PAGE_564 =====
564
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content by sharing them with others.
ENG.6.1.P1.  Students can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“school life with roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and 
celebrations” accurately, authentically, and naturally through spontaneous decision-making 
processes and use it in an appropriate and effective way when communicating with others.
a) Students listen to the current content by paying attention to the target phonological aspects 
including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Students reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source 
several times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Students recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts.
d) Students recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they 
are heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Students use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously, and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.6.1.R1.  Students can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content 
on “school life with roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and 
celebrations”. 
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content efficiently.
b) Students recognise significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Students make significant preliminary predictions about the current content based on 
recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring the audio-visual 
clues surrounding it.
ENG.6.1.R2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “school life with roles, and 
responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and celebrations” through skimming 
(looking quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Students review the current content by looking at the surrounding audio/visual materials to 
identify what it is about in general through skimming.
b) Students read the current content to scan the major components silently and quickly with the 
help of the clues provided. 
c) Students carefully read the current content silently and carefully to find significant details and 
components belonging to the theme.
ENG.6.1.R3.  Students can make meaning of / derive meaning from the current content about “school life 
with roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and celebrations” by 
reading it carefully.
a) Students carefully check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial and detailed 
predictions that are made earlier. 
b) Students classify the significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
c) Students compare significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.

===== PDF_PAGE_565 =====
565
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships within the current 
content that contribute to the perception of the content in a meaningful way.
e) Students make meaningful inferences from the information in the current content by 
examining it carefully.
f) Students internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to age and language level.
ENG.6.1.R4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “school life with roles, and 
responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and celebrations” in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have 
been carefully examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process.
b) Students convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been carefully 
examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing 
them with others.
c) Students produce new products related to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities. 
ENG.6.1.V1.  Students can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “school life 
with roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and celebrations” 
accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively 
when communicating with others.
a) Students guess the main topic of the current content from the audio/visual/written elements 
(e.g. sound, voices, scenes, written words) in the contextual material by listening (to)/watching/
reading it several times for recognition.
b) Students recognise sub-themes/key components of the target words to which they belong in 
the current content by scanning.
c) Students recognise the target words related to the main components of the current content 
with the help of the audio/visual/written elements and other clues.
d) Students repeat aloud the relevant target key components and target vocabulary in the 
current content with the whole class, in groups, and then individually together with or after 
listening (to)/watching/reading the source material.
e) Students recognise the use of target words and expressions in the current content by making 
various guesses with the help of supplementary elements.
f) Students make context-appropriate selections automatically by associating target words 
with their pre-existing conceptual meanings in the mind without analysing their contextual 
meaning in detail. 
g) Students use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts by being aware of their differences when communicating with others.
ENG.6.1.G1.  Students can select and use the target grammatical elements of the current content about 
“school life with roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and 
celebrations” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately 
and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Students become familiar with the current content by listening (to)/watching/reading it a few 
times attentively.
b) Students listen (to)/watch/read the same content, attentively and mindfully, including the use 
of target grammatical chunks presented verbally in context with the help of body language.

===== PDF_PAGE_566 =====
566
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students verbally and automatically repeat simple and meaningful clauses/sentences 
containing target grammatical chunks that they have noticed in the current content that they 
have heard/viewed/read without explicit knowledge of the rules.
d) Students act out physically the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks 
in the current content heard/viewed/read by repeating them several times without knowing, 
analysing, and thinking about their rules.
e) Students see and read the example sentences containing target grammatical chunks provided 
for language awareness carefully.
f) Students gain awareness of clauses/sentences that contain target grammatical chunks that 
are presented for the purpose of raising language awareness.
g) Students recognise the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks when 
they encounter them by seeing and/or hearing them in different contexts.
h) Students use the recognised target grammatical chunks naturally, authentically, and 
automatically in new contextual tasks and activities without analysing their rules.
i) Students produce new and meaningful verbal/written content about the current theme by 
using the target grammatical chunks in meaningful tasks without knowing and analysing their 
rules.
j) Students use the target language chunks authentically, automatically, and naturally in 
communication processes without analysing their rules in meaningful contexts.
ENG.6.1.W1.  Students can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on 
“school life with roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and 
celebrations”.
a) Students relate their pre-existing knowledge and experience used in the initial processes of 
writing-expression skills to the current content by activating them in relation with the current 
content.
b) Students understand what the writing task and its content are in relation to the current 
content correctly by making use of their pre-existing knowledge and experience as guided and 
assigned.
ENG.6.1.W2.  Students can understand the model/example for the writing task about the current content 
on “school life with roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and 
celebrations”.
a) Students understand the components and details of the content in the provided model/
sample which is displayed as a guide, by examining it carefully.
ENG.6.1.W3.  Students can organise a content for the assigned writing task on the current content “school 
life with roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and celebrations” 
based on the model/example provided.
a) Students conduct preliminary research for a prepared writing situation according to the 
current content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
b) Students develop a simple draft for a prepared/or unprepared writing task about the current 
content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
c) Students organise and/or produce materials relevant to the content for a prepared/
unprepared writing task, appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level. 
ENG.6.1.W4.  Students can individually construct/form content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “school life with roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days 
and celebrations”.
a) Students present appropriate and accurate materials for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task about the current theme according to the assigned writing type, age, and language 
level.

===== PDF_PAGE_567 =====
567
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and rules relevant to the assigned writing 
type for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language chunks accurately and appropriately 
for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task about the current content by selecting them 
according to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
d) Students express important messages in the written current content to the reader accurately 
and appropriately for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
ENG.6.1.W5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information in the new written tasks about 
the “school life with roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and 
celebrations” to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information in the current content or similar information in a different content 
by internalising and selecting it individually and reorganising it as required and meaningfully in 
different contexts.
b) Students exchange information/ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge meaningfully with others.
ENG.6.1.W6.  Students can reflect on their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to 
the writing-expression process about the current content, “school life with roles, and 
responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and celebrations” in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in 
relation to the current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in relation to the 
writing-expression process about the current content with others.
c) Students produce new written products related to the current writing-expression content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities.
ENG.6.1.S1.  Students can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “school 
life with roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and celebrations”.
a) Students make connections with the current content by activating their pre-existing 
knowledge and experiences that they have recalled in the listening (to)/watching/reading 
sections previously.
ENG.6.1.S2.  Students can use the model/example for producing verbal content about the current content 
on “school life with roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and 
celebrations”.
a) Students listen (to)/watch/read the model/example for the current content with the help of 
audio/visual/written elements.
ENG.6.1.S3.  Students can organise a new verbal content on “school life with roles, and responsibilities at 
school; school routines; national days and celebrations” by speaking accurately, efficiently, 
and authentically.
a) Students recognise what form and type of content is expected and assigned for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations based on audio/visual/written content as provided in the 
model/example.
b) Students organise the content for prepared/unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate 
and accurate way as they have heard/seen/read in the model/example.
c) Students develop a draft for prepared/unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the 
age and language level as presented in the model/sample content.
d) Students organise supplementary audio/visual/written materials for prepared/or unprepared 
speaking situations, appropriate to age and language level, as provided in the model/sample 
content.

===== PDF_PAGE_568 =====
568
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
e) Students organise the information about the current content to be presented for prepared/or 
unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate way as required.
ENG.6.1.S4.  Students can construct a new verbal content on “school life with roles, and responsibilities at 
school; school routines; national days and celebrations” by speaking accurately, efficiently, 
and authentically.
a) Students use target pronunciation, vocabulary, language chunks, and forms of discourse 
related to the current content effectively by selecting them accurately and appropriately for 
prepared/unprepared speaking situations.
b) Students present individually prepared content in an accurate and efficient way as presented 
in the model/example for prepared speaking situations clearly, efficiently, and appropriately.
c) Students present individually prepared information in an accurate and efficient way as 
presented in the model/example for unprepared speaking situations.
d) Students express the message about the current content clearly to the reader by using all 
supplementary elements and body language in an appropriate and accurate way in context for 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.6.1.S5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information about the “school life with roles, 
and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and celebrations” to communicate 
with other people.
a) Students use the information presented in the current content by reorganising it appropriately, 
efficiently, individually, and verbally in different contexts.
b) Students engage in appropriate and efficient verbal communication by sharing the 
reconstructed meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.6.1.S6.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to 
the speaking-expression process about the current content, “school life with roles, and 
responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and celebrations” to communicate 
with other people in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully in 
relation to the speaking-expression process about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_569 =====
569
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
SCHOOL LIFE
Sub-themes: Roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and celebrations
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for roles, and responsibilities at school:
Nouns: A permission, a leader, a manner, a guide, a celebration, an interview, a celebration, a festival, a 
school ceremony, an assembly, a speech.
Verbs: To support, to lead, to care, to volunteer, to celebrate.
Adjectives: Helpful, successful, keen.
Adverbs: Carefully, willingly, cheerfully.
Vocabulary for school routines:
Nouns: An instruction, a listener, a term, a follow-up, a ceremony, national anthem, a parade, a flag. 
Verbs: To enter, to greet, to pack, to pass, to fail, to try, to follow.
Adjectives: Later, soon. 
Adverbs: Before, regularly.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Background Grammatical Structures in Use: 
-Articles (a/an/the): (A leader, an instruction, the permission)
-Imperatives: (Enter the classroom quietly).
-Personal pronouns: (He listens carefully to the teacher’s instructions). 
-There is/There are: (There is a leader in every group. There are instructions written on the board).
-Wh- questions (who-when-what-where): (Who is the leader of the class? Where do we enter the building?)
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Present Simple Tense: (A leader always cares for the team).
-Adverbs of frequency: (Students often greet their teachers before entering the class).
-Object pronouns: (The teacher supports them in their work). 
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of articles (a/an/the): Expressing non-specific or general items and specific or definite items.
-Use of imperatives: Giving commands.
-Use of The Present Simple Tense: Expressing routines, habits, general truths, and facts.
-Use of adverbs of frequency: Expressing the frequency of actions or events.
-Use of personal pronouns: Indicating who is involved in the action, possession, or other relationships in a 
sentence.
-Use of there is/there are: Introducing existence or presence, specifying objects, people, or places in a 
location.

===== PDF_PAGE_570 =====
570
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
-Use of wh- questions (who-when-what-where): Asking about things, actions, ideas, a time of an event, 
about people in an action.
Use of object pronouns: Replacing nouns that receive the action in a sentence.
Target Social Language in Use:
She’s such a team player during all school projects!
You need to work harder to make the grade! 
The choir is always in the spotlight during the Republic Day celebrations!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
 Intonation of positive statements
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “school life” and its components such as “roles, and responsibilities at 
school; school routines; national days and celebrations” is present in almost all languages. People who start 
to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to their new language 
learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what “school life” and its components 
such as “roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and celebrations” means but will 
not know how to say them in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. 
However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the 
new information more easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts
roles, responsibilities, routines, roles and responsibilities at school, routines, routines at school, national 
days, celebrations.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will prepare a poster about their daily routines at school. First, 
they will write sentences describing their daily routines at school. Then, they will write these sentences on 
a paper and add some details such as photos, pictures, drawings etc. Finally, they will present their posters 
in the class and display them on the classroom bulletin board. The assignment will be evaluated by using a 
rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “school life” and its components such as “roles, and 
responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and celebrations”. As they are lower secondary 
school students in year 6 (six), they can know what “school life” and its components such as “roles, and 
responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and celebrations” mean in their own language as it 
is known that almost all people who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their 
own language) with them and transfer it to their new language learning context. However, they may not know 
how to say these things in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. 
Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn 
them more easily in a foreign language, in this case English.
As they are students in year 6 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “school 
life” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or years. These grammar 
items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning of the year, and they can 
be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current theme, so that the 
new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.

===== PDF_PAGE_571 =====
571
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “school life” and its components such as “roles, and responsibilities at school; school 
routines; national days and celebrations”. Recalling and practising with relevant vocabulary and language 
grammar items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as a basis for moving on 
and learning the current content on the concept of “school life”. Their knowledge of the days of the week and 
holidays will help them learn and practise important national holidays such as “the Republic Day of Türkiye”. 
Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary and language grammar items from the 
previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, 
their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to 
understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and grammatical items to build their competence in the 
current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge 
and to facilitate the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current theme. (Their performance can be 
evaluated by rubrics throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students can recall the current (theme) concept of “school life” and its components such as “roles, and 
responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and celebrations” by remembering their pre-existing 
background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with the 
current activities in the current theme in English without translating anything until they start learning the 
target words in the current (new) concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
various materials such as short scene from a film, series, a part from a story, a poster etc. which is appropriate 
to the age, level, and pedagogy could be used before the main teaching/learning flow of the class begins. 
They would give a general idea of the theme. Students are facilitated with the relevant materials through 
various activities.  When they have finished working on it, the teacher asks them in English if they understood 
what it was about. For checking their understanding, she/he can design several activities. For instance, they 
can write a related word that they know in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways can be tried.
The teacher asks them to wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the digital introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any 
further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme “school life”in the classroom, to prepare the students emotionally, 
cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker 
to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This 
could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing 
a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote/a very short story, watching a 
pantomime/cartoon story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require 
any knowledge of English  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4). 
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills  (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection 
and use) are used in an integrated way around “school life” and sub-themes “roles, and responsibilities at 
school; school routines; national days and celebrations” allowing students to build background knowledge 
through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a 
meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although 
they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the learning-teaching practices, they are always used in 
a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development 

===== PDF_PAGE_572 =====
572
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a balanced integration of all the 
skills, where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) 
and respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their vocabulary, 
grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG6.1.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: Having seen a visual about and having guessed 
the topic of “school life” during the background recall session, students can have a vision of the current 
theme as a general concept in the current  (new) theme  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, V1.1, V3.1, V14.3, LS1, LS4,LS5, 
LS6, CS2.11, CS2.16.2). So, a further concept check with listening/watching for gist activities including more 
guessing games using clues from some pictures, realia, short video clips etc. help them prepare for the 
current theme  (CS2.6, CS2.8).  For each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as the main context 
of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through the theme to cover target pronunciation, 
vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole theme  (CS2.14).  
It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. The teacher asks 
them whether their guesses during the background recall session were correct and also what they think the 
introductory digital story that they are going to watch could be about  (CS2.8).  As they have already seen 
a scene from a film about the theme and the pictures, realia, etc. they can easily answer what the current 
theme will be about and that their guesses were true  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V1.1,V3.1, V3.3, V3.4, 
V14.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17). 
ENG6.1.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING: The teacher asks the students to 
watch the introductory digital story carefully, recalling the work done with visuals  (the scene from a film, 
pictures, realia, or video clips about the theme shown earlier)   (CS2.11) .  Students watch the introductory 
digital story to consolidate the identification of the theme’’ school life‘’ in it as a whole  (CS2.13)  without 
stopping the video at any point, so that the students can understand the theme holistically  (D3.2,SELS1.1, 
V1.1, V3.1, V3.3, V3.4, V14.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.14, CS2.16.2). 
ENG6.1.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw students’ attention to 
the content, some realia brought into the classroom by the teacher could be used  (V1.1, V3.1, V14.3) .  The 
teacher could show the corresponding objects to the students when the corresponding vocabulary for the 
main components of the theme “school life”  is mentioned in the introductory digital story, without stopping 
the video while the students watch the story  (CS2.6).  When they have watched the whole story, the teacher 
could show the realia items on the table and ask questions with two options  (CS2.5).  As one of the words is 
from the previous themes, students could hear, understand, recognise and learn the  (new) target vocabulary 
for each main component of the theme easily  (CS2.1).  In this way, the teacher could engage in a dialogue 
with the whole class to check that they have recognised the components of the theme, and that they have 
understood each realia item is about one component  (CS2.8).  Further activities and games can be played at 
this stage to reinforce the general meaning of the theme through its main components  (D1.1, D2.5, SELS2.1, 
V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4). 
To check whether the students understand the general topic of the theme ”school life”  and remember the 
sequence of the scenes of the introductory digital story, the teacher shows an organiser with the mixed 
images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the students to look at the images/pictures 
of the scenes for a while  (CS2.3).  She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs in their seats with 
the mixed paper pictures she/he has already given to the students  (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS4, LS6 ). 
When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for the scenes of the story, the teacher asks the students 

===== PDF_PAGE_573 =====
573
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
to take turns or volunteer to sort the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board  (or the pictures on the 
blackboard)  (SELS1.2, CS2.6, CS2.10) .  This will help the students to organise the story as a whole so that 
they can identify the main theme and the components of the theme from their memories   (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, 
V16.3, V20.4, CS2.12). 
ENG6.1.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/ W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY : The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process   (SELS1.3, V3.4). Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3,V12.1, 
LS5, LS6).  The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design  (V10.3). 
ENG6.1.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION : To practise pronunciation of the new target words, word 
groups, language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “school life”  and the words 
and/or word groups for the sub-themes “roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days 
and celebrations”, the teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the whole or some extracts from the 
introductory digital story by noticing how words are pronounced  (V1.1, V3.1, V3.3, V14.3, LS4, CS2.6).  She/
He asks them to repeat the word aloud when she/he stops the video for a word and says it. The teacher then 
asks the students to listen and repeat the same words aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to 
the recordings that she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes  (LS2, CS2.16.3) . 
The teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as showing the picture of the target word 
to the students to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the 
recording, and then both  (CS2.8).  To help the students pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks 
them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in 
large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V4.2, V20.4, 
LS1, CS2.14). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Practice of pronunciation could be done with different 
forms of TPR, gamification and drama activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words/word groups 
for the sub-themes “roles, and responsibilities at school; school routines; national days and celebrations” 
the students listen  (CS2.9); then the teacher says the target words/word groups and acts them out, the 
students repeat after her/him  (SELS2.1, CS2.14).  Then the teacher and the students say the target words/
word groups and act them out together at the same time. Then the teacher says the words/word groups 
and acts them out. These activities can be done through the actions for the sub-themes   (D2.3, D2.5, V1.1, 
V3.1, V3.3, V14.3). As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, sadly, angrily, etc. 
using different tones of voice  (SELS2.3, CS2.8, CS2.11).  They also practise for the target social language 
chunks using the same or similar techniques. During the repetitions, they point to relevant pictures that 
the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom  (CS2.12).  Some action sequences are also 
created in which the students can practise the social language in a fun way by repeating, pointing, miming, 
and acting out in several games  (SELS2.1, V7.2, LS5, LS6, LS9). The teacher facilitates some activities with 
dialogues and games in which students can practice the target pronunciation by selecting and using them 
accurately, naturally, and authentically  (CS3.1).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such 
as shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several 
sound drills  (SELS2.2).  The target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are 
practised through them  (CS2.13).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, D2.5, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4).  

===== PDF_PAGE_574 =====
574
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.1.R1
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS: The teacher facilitates reading and writing 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise 
techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the 
theme in various forms and amounts. Reading is done in two ways in the theme by using the written version 
of the introductory digital story and additional reading texts in reading sections of the instructional material 
to be used  (V3.2, LS2, LS4).  Various reading styles including silent reading, speed reading, jigsaw reading, 
and basic reading techniques including skimming, scanning, and reading for details during pre-reading, 
while-reading, and post-reading phases are used in the theme   (V3.4, LS1, CS2.3, CS2.6) . The ultimate aim 
of reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills and 
critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend and talk/write about the content in a meaningful and 
communicative way  (V3.3, V7.2, LS5, CS3.3). For the initial stage of reading, the teacher asks the students 
to look at the audio/visual/written elements  (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) 
surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory story or a new text in the reading section of 
the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the conceptual meanings they already have about 
the theme  (CS2.8).  At this stage, the teacher could ask the students to read the title of the theme and ask 
the students which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title  (SELS1.1, 
CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new words or the words they do not know. 
She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity by using the words they know and that there is time 
to work on the new words of the new theme later  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, CS2.10, CS2.12). 
ENG6.1.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING : Students go on with a scanning activity to find 
out the most important details of the introductory digital story and/or a new text in the reading section which 
is organised to help students to know more about the reading content  (CS2.6, CS2.7).  In this way they could 
be able to recognise the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or 
tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned  (quickly read) in the story  (CS2.4).  By doing so, they 
will be able to understand the story/text in general using the main elements  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, V3.4, LS1). 
ENG6.1.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Then the teacher asks the students to do a jigsaw reading activity, 
so she/he shows the written version of the introductory digital story or the text in the reading section on the 
blackboard/Smart Board  (or in any other teaching material).  She/He asks the students to work in pairs to 
share the text  (SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the text and the second peer reads the other half 
of the text in a given time  (CS2.6).  They are then asked to share what they have understood from their part 
with their peer, also in a given time. In this way, they talk about the whole story after reading it silently, in the 
jigsaw reading style  (D2.4, D3.6, V3.4, V4.2, V16.2, LS1, LS6,CS2.8, CS2.9) .  Some speed-reading activities 
can be used to develop students’ reading and comprehension skills. These activities can be evaluated as 
explained in the item  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After 
sharing their parts, students proceed with the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical 
chunks, and semantic meaning relatively with the help of the teacher  (CS2.14).  For dealing with the semantic 
meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, 
open- ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1).  From display to communicative open-ended, various 
types of questions are used to understand the meaning of the text  (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, CS2.6).  During this 
process students work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings  (D3.2, D3.7, V3.3, 
V7.2, V20.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 

===== PDF_PAGE_575 =====
575
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.1.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process  (SELS1.3).  Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive   (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates 
different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design  (D2.3, D3.5, 
V4.2, V6.2, V10.3, V12.1, LS1, LS6). 
ENG6.1.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY : At this stage, students remember what the 
theme is about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/ 
watching, and pre-reading sessions  (SELS1.1).  As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal with the 
main components and target vocabulary of the theme  (V3.2, LS1). 
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY : A scanning activity to find out the main details of the 
introductory digital story  (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help students to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some important pictures, words or events about the main components 
of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen 
and scanned  (quickly read) in the story. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general 
by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items  (D3.2, D3.6, LS1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then the students read the written version of the digital story again silently,  
(or the reading text in the reading section), to check whether they know any of the target vocabulary items 
about the theme  (V1.1, V3.1, V14.3, CS2.8). They underline the words whose meaning they do not know while 
reading silently  (CS2.17).  Students say these words when they finish reading and the teacher writes these 
words on the Smart Board/blackboard/ white board as they say them. The teacher writes only the target 
words on the Smart Board/blackboard as active words that the students have said. She/He quickly deals 
with the non-target passive vocabulary items by using pictures, mimics, gestures, imitations, examples, 
etc. But she/he takes time to facilitate the teaching of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.2, V3.3, V3.4, LS2, 
LS4,CS2.4, CS2.5, CS2.7). 
To introduce and practise the meanings of the target vocabulary related to the theme, that the students do 
not know, the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story  (or the video of the reading 
text if there is one) again. From the beginning, whenever a target item is mentioned, the teacher stops the 
video and asks several questions in the form of two options, one of which is a word from the previous themes 
that they already know  (V1.1, V3.1, V14.3, CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what they are, the students hear 
the English equivalents of the words for the theme and they answer as a whole class in chorus. In this way, 
they are introduced to the meanings of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6,D3.7, CS2.10).  This is conducted in the 
form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (SELS2.1)  (7),  (8), and  (9) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (V1.1, V3.1, V3.3, V3.4, V14.3, 
LS1, LS2, LS4).  After having watched the introductory digital story, the teacher shows some pictures for 
the sub-themes, on the walls as clues and says the words aloud several times in sentences by pointing to 
the pictures and the students repeat after her/him  (D2.3, V1.1, V3.1, V14.3, CS2.6, CS2.11).  In this way, the 
main vocabulary items of the theme are introduced to the students in English as described in item (3) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V1.1, V3.1, V14.3). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY : The teacher can prepare an activity using the Web 2.0 
programme with images/pictures, and symbolic images for some categories about the components of 
the theme ’’school life ‘’. She/He also prepares mixed images/pictures for target vocabulary items for the 

===== PDF_PAGE_576 =====
576
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
activities which can be done in relation to the components. She/He asks the students to look at the mixed 
pile of images/pictures of the main components of the theme on the Smart Board screen and scan them for 
a while to remember them  (V1.1, V3.1, V14.3, CS2.4).  She/He explains to the students that the items will be 
placed under the correct category, but first she/he gives the students the cut-out pictures of the activities 
and a large sheet of paper with the categories written on it and the cut-out pictures will be placed under each 
category correctly   (V3.3, L2, LS4, CS2.5) . The teacher asks them to work in pairs and place the cut-out 
pictures in the right category and ask each other some questions about the theme   (D3.2, D3.8,SELS2.2, 
V1.1, V3.1, V14.3) .  When the students have finished working with the cut-out pictures and asking and 
answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart Board 
and drag the corresponding images/pictures under the right category on the screen   (SELS1.2, V3.4, V20.4, 
LS1, LS4, CS2.5).  In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the main concept and its components are 
consolidated through categorisation. This activity can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if 
there is a problem with te chnology. The teacher asks the students to copy the words next to the pictures 
they have pasted or drawn in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture 
dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling  (D3.2, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, 
LS9). To consolidate the meaning, selection, and use of the new target vocabulary items, the teacher could 
organise activities and tasks using pictures, flashcards, sounds, realia, and any other materials to play games 
such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, Wordscapes, Scrabble, Pictionary, Letter Scramble, 
Acronyms, Charades etc. Games could be adapted according to the teacher’s objectives  (pronunciation, 
spelling, meaning, selection, use etc.), age, interests, and language level of the students  (CS2.13).  Students 
can be asked to create their own games to use the target vocabulary items in context  (D2.5, D.3.3, SELS3.1, 
SELS3.2, V1.1, V3.1, V4.2, V4.4,V7.2, V14.3, LS9, CS2.20).  Students’ learning can be checked as described in 
items  (3), and  (4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG6.1.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS : To draw the students’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme ’’school life‘’, the introductory digital story or an extract from it played so that the 
students can notice the target language chunks  (D3.2, CS2.2).  While watching the introductory digital story, 
the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by 
showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the students to do the same  (V3.2, LS2, CS2.14). She could 
hold up large pictures corresponding to the chunks when they are mentioned in the digital story to draw the 
students’ attention. The sentences with the target chunks are also written and placed on the Smart Board/
blackboard/ whiteboard. The teacher also points to these sentences while pointing to the scenes in the story 
where they appear. There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Students can 
automatically and naturally identify the use of the target language chunks in the current context created in 
the introductory digital story without working on any rules or structures  (SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, 
CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  To check the students’ identification of the target language chunks, after the students 
have finished watching the introductory digital story, the teacher asks them to read the sentences with the 
target language chunks written by the teacher on the Smart Board /blackboard/whiteboard and asks them 
to find the same or similar sentences in the written version of the introductory digital story or another text 
that is shown on the Smart Board  (D3.2, SELS3.2, V3.3). She/He also asks them to find the same or similar 
sentences with these chunks which are given in different types of tables prepared by the teacher  (CS2.7).  
These tables do not include any explanations of grammatical rules, explanations, or formulas, and they only 
contain example sentences with target chunks in which important words with the target grammar are written 
in bold or different colours to attract students’ attention. The teacher asks them to look at the words in bold 
or in different colours and asks students to examine them  (CS2.9).  Then the teacher asks the students 
to copy these sentences with target chunks written in bold or different colours into their notebooks. The 
teacher asks the students to make very similar sentences using the target words and asks them to share their 
sentences with each other in pairs, and then with the class  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, D3.2, V4.2, CS2.13,CS2.14, 
CS2.16.1, CS2.16.2). Both the teacher and the class members give feedback to the students as they say their 

===== PDF_PAGE_577 =====
577
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
sentences  (CS2.19).  The teacher gives all students a checklist with simple symbols to evaluate each other’s 
work as explained in the items  (5) and  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, LS6). 
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate students’ further practice with the target 
language chunks in the theme ’’school life‘’, the teacher shows some other sentences with these chunks 
in another context such as a short story, a short paragraph, and a short dialogue etc. and asks students 
to find the sentences with the target chunks in them and asks if they understand them  (SELS3.2, V1.1, 
V3.1, V3.3, V14.3, CS2.4, CS2.6,CS2.8) .  She/He gives some written activities and exercises to practise the 
target chunks in context. She/He also facilitates more fun activities and as described in items  (5),  (8),  (9), 
and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. To consolidate the 
target language chunks, the teacher organises different fun activity and game bundles that the students can 
practise and consolidate them  (CS2.13) where their learning can be checked as described in item  (10) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (D2.5, V4.4). 
ENG6.1.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION : Practising through writing: Writing activities 
help students  to  produce  and  display  meaningful  written  language  for  their  personal  expression  and 
communication with others, by using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and 
the social language in this theme, as in other themes   (V1.1, V3.1, V3.2, V14.3). 
ENG6.1.W2.
RECOGNISING THE MODEL:  Initially, students produce very limited and short pieces of writing such as 
sentences to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme ’’school life ‘’. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat or simply explain what they hear and 
see in context and what they are asked to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy to be able 
to notice significant points and elements in it  (SELS3.1).  While copying a short model writing, they become 
aware of the aspects such as the use of words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on  (D3.1, 
V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). 
ENG6.1.W3.
CREATING THE WRITING CONTENT: Controlled writing of words and sentences turns to short paragraphs in 
a process writing manner with the support of the teacher’s feedback in the theme. This process is expanded 
and supported by several practical activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/ 
pantomime/video stories, dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, 
etc. to practise further by writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (D1.3, D3.1, SELS3.2,V3.4, V4.4, V7.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG6.1.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
projects, scripts for plays, diaries/journals, blogs, very short film scenarios, etc. to express their ideas, 
thoughts, and feelings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be contextual, practical, 
authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests and language level  (V3.4, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, 
LS9). 

===== PDF_PAGE_578 =====
578
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.1.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students  interact  and  communicate 
with peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme in their writing  (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V1.1, V3.1, V3.4, 
V4.2, V14.3, LS9, CS2.20).   AI- based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access 
to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home in a variety 
of ways  (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3,V7.2, LS2, CS2.20). These activities are evaluated as described in items  
(11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles  for  the  Implementation  of  the  English  Curriculum.
ENG6.1.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (D1.5, SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, 
LS1, LS6). 
ENG6.1.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING: The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from the 
first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance students’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language expressions of the theme  (V1.1, 
V3.1, V3.2, V3.4, V14.3). 
ENG6.1.S2
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL: In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, students 
recognise how the language with the target language items is used  (CS2.6).  They practise the language in a 
controlled way, by telling, repeating, explaining what they hear and see in the context  (D1.3, D3.2, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.4). 
ENG6.1.S3
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT : In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues etc. as new opportunities for the students to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc.  (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13). 
ENG6.1.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS:  Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products 
related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact 
with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V1.1, V3.1, V14.3, 
CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings   
(D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, V7.2 , LS2, LS9, CS2.20). 

===== PDF_PAGE_579 =====
579
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.1.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students communicate with each other 
by seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme ‘’school life ‘’ in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.3, CS2.20).  Picture 
strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision  (V3.4, V4.2, V12.1, 
LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and 
appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. Storification and gamification techniques 
are actively and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme. 
Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as 
dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other 
people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar in use, 
and the social language for the theme and its components such as “roles, and responsibilities at school; 
school routines; national days and celebrations” (V3.4,V4.2, V1.1, V3.1, V14.3, LS4, CS3.1, CS2.20).  AI-based 
technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They can also 
produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.3, V7.2, 
LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items  (7),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use and practise by 
communicating with others.
ENG6.1.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole speaking-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different activities for 
creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, LS1, LS6). 
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To practise daily routines and habits in English by encouraging students to use the target grammar 
chunks and vocabulary.
Activity 1: Frequency Matters
The teacher divides the class into pairs or small groups of 3-4 students and gives each group a survey sheet 
with questions about routines, habits, and frequency. For example: “How often do you eat vegetables?”, “How 
do you go to school?” or “Do you ever watch TV in the morning?”. Students ask and answer the questions in pairs 
or small groups. They respond using the Present Simple and include adverbs of frequency in their answers. 
For example: “I always eat vegetables for lunch”, “I usually take the bus to school” or “I never watch TV in the 
morning”. After the survey, the teacher asks students to report back to the class using full sentences such 
as “Student A always eats vegetables for lunch”, “Student B never watches TV in the morning”. She/He asks 
students to share some of the most interesting or surprising routines they heard from their classmates. Then 
she/he writes some of the correct and incorrect sentences on the board (without identifying the students) 
and corrects any mistakes related to adverb placement and Present Simple Tense usage. She/He reminds 
students that they can practice discussing their routines and habits outside of class by focusing on adverbs 
of frequency in daily conversations. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.

===== PDF_PAGE_580 =====
580
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Supporting
Objective: To practise daily routines and habits in English by encouraging students to use the target grammar 
chunks and vocabulary.
Activity 1: Frequency Matters
The teacher divides the class into pairs or small groups of 3-4 students and gives each group a sheet with 
questions about routines, habits, and frequency. For example: “How often do you eat vegetables?”, “How do 
you go to school?” or “Do you ever watch TV in the morning?”. Students ask and answer the questions in pairs 
or small groups. They respond using the Present Simple and include adverbs of frequency in their answers. 
The teacher moves around the class and gives guidance to students who need help with the sentence 
structure or adverb placement. Students share their sentences with their peer. The teacher asks students 
to share some of the most interesting or surprising routines they heard from their classmates. She/He writes 
some of the correct and incorrect sentences on the board (without identifying the students) and corrects 
any mistakes related to adverb placement and Present Simple Tense usage. She/He reminds students that 
they can practise discussing their routines and habits outside of class by focusing on adverbs of frequency 
in daily conversations. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_581 =====
581
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 2: CLASSROOM LIFE
Sub-themes: Daily and study routines; learning 
activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-500; 
ordinal numbers 1-50
This theme is centred on the concept of “classroom life” and covers the sub-
themes of “daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; 
cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50”. These components (sub-
themes) are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised 
use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and 
social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed 
to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within 
and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust,  
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity,  
D3.5. Open-Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic,  
D3.8. Questioning
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. 
Modesty, V12. Patience, V16. Responsibility, V20. Benevolence

===== PDF_PAGE_582 =====
582
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Physical Education and Sports, Visual Arts, 
Music, Information Technologies and Software
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information 
Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. 
Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based 
Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, 
CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing Skill, CS2.20. 
Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_583 =====
583
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 6 is structured based on semi-holistic/semi-inductive approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.6.2.L1.  Students can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “classroom life with daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; 
cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50” carefully.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience related to the current theme 
and content by recalling their background knowledge imaginatively in her/his own language 
without speaking it.
b) Students identify significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge and 
experiences and the clues to the current content without translation.
c) Students make predictions about the current content on “classroom life” by using the 
relationships that they recognised accurately by looking at the provided realia, pictures, and 
context.
d) Students make predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/visual 
elements in relation to the current theme.
ENG.6.2.L2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “classroom life with daily and 
study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal 
numbers 1-50” together through significant details and main components while listening/
watching it.
a) Students comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole.
b) Students recognise the significant details and components within the whole current content 
by listening (to) and watching it again in a careful manner.
ENG.6.2.L3.  Students can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “classroom life 
with daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-500; 
ordinal numbers 1-50” through significant details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Students check any initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals surrounding the current 
content.
b) Students make important and necessary classifications in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
c) Students make important and necessary comparisons in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content with the help of classifications and comparisons made 
earlier.
e) Students make significant inferences that contribute to the understanding of the meaning of 
the generally perceived current content.
f) Students construct the meaning of the current content in detail through the classifications/
comparisons/inferences made earlier in relation to it.
g) Students internalise the current content in an individualised and appropriate way according to 
age and language level.
ENG.6.2.L4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully 
about the whole listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content 
on “classroom life with daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal 
numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50”.

===== PDF_PAGE_584 =====
584
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content.
b) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content by sharing them with others.
ENG.6.2.P1.  Students can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“classroom life with daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal 
numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50” accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes and use it in an appropriate and effective way when 
communicating with others.
a) Students listen to the current content by paying attention to the target phonological aspects 
including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Students reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source 
several times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Students recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts.
d) Students recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they 
are heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Students use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.6.2.R1.  Students can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content 
on “classroom life with daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal 
numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50”. 
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content efficiently.
b) Students recognise significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Students make significant preliminary predictions about the current content based on 
recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring the audio-visual 
clues surrounding it.
ENG.6.2.R2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “classroom life with daily and 
study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal 
numbers 1-50” through skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading 
the content very quickly.
a) Students review the current content by looking at the surrounding audio/visual materials to 
identify what it is about in general through skimming.
b) Students read the current content to scan the major components silently and quickly with the 
help of the clues provided. 
c) Students carefully read the current content silently and carefully to find significant details and 
components belonging to the theme.
ENG.6.2.R3.  Students can make meaning of / derive meaning from the current content about “classroom 
life with daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-
500; ordinal numbers 1-50” by reading it carefully.

===== PDF_PAGE_585 =====
585
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students carefully check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial and detailed 
predictions that are made earlier. 
b) Students classify the significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
c) Students compare significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships within the current 
content that contribute to the perception of the content in a meaningful way.
e) Students make meaningful inferences from the information in the current content by examining 
it carefully.
f) Students internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to age and language level.
ENG.6.2.R4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “classroom life with daily and 
study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal 
numbers 1-50” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have 
been carefully examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process.
b) Students convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been carefully 
examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing 
them with others.
c) Students produce new products related to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities. 
ENG.6.2.V1.  Students can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “classroom 
life with daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-
500; ordinal numbers 1-50” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it 
appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Students guess the main topic of the current content from the audio/visual/written elements 
(e.g. sound, voices, scenes, written words) in the contextual material by listening (to)/watching/
reading it several times for recognition.
b) Students recognise sub-themes/key components of the target words to which they belong in 
the current content by scanning.
c) Students recognise the target words related to the main components of the current content 
with the help of the audio/visual/written elements and other clues.
d) Students repeat aloud the relevant target key components and target vocabulary in the 
current content with the whole class, in groups, and then individually together with or after 
listening (to)/watching/reading the source material.
e) Students recognise the use of target words and expressions in the current content by making 
various guesses with the help of supplementary elements.
f) Students make context-appropriate selections automatically by associating target words 
with their pre-existing conceptual meanings in the mind without analysing their contextual 
meaning in detail. 
g) Students use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts by being aware of their differences when communicating with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_586 =====
586
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.6.2.G1.  Students can select and use the target grammatical elements of the current content about 
“classroom life with daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal 
numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and 
naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Students become familiar with the current content by listening (to)/watching/reading it a few 
times attentively.
b) Students listen (to)/watch/read the same content, attentively and mindfully, including the use 
of target grammatical chunks presented verbally in context with the help of body language.
c) Students verbally and automatically repeat simple and meaningful clauses/sentences 
containing target grammatical chunks that they have noticed in the current content that they 
have heard/viewed/read without explicit knowledge of the rules.
d) Students act out physically the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks 
in the current content heard/viewed/read by repeating them several times without knowing, 
analysing, and thinking about their rules.
e) Students see and read the example sentences containing target grammatical chunks provided 
for language awareness carefully.
f) Students gain awareness of clauses/sentences that contain target grammatical chunks that 
are presented for the purpose of raising language awareness.
g) Students recognise the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks when 
they encounter them by seeing and/or hearing them in different contexts.
h) Students use the recognised target grammatical chunks naturally, authentically, and 
automatically in new contextual tasks and activities without analysing their rules.
i) Students produce new and meaningful verbal/written content about the current theme by 
using the target grammatical chunks in meaningful tasks without knowing and analysing their 
rules.
j) Students use the target language chunks authentically, automatically, and naturally in 
communication processes without analysing their rules in meaningful contexts.
ENG.6.2.W1.  Students can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on 
“classroom life with daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal 
numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50”.
a) Students relate their pre-existing knowledge and experience used in the initial processes of 
writing-expression skills to the current content by activating them in relation with the current 
content.
b) Students understand what the writing task and its content are in relation to the current 
content correctly by making use of their pre-existing knowledge and experience as guided and 
assigned.
ENG.6.2.W2.  Students can understand the model/example for the writing task about the current content 
on “classroom life with daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal 
numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50”.
a) Students understand the components and details of the content in the provided model/
sample which is displayed as a guide, by examining it carefully.
ENG.6.2.W3.  Students can organise a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“classroom life with daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal 
numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50” based on the model/example provided.
a) Students conduct preliminary research for a prepared writing situation according to the 
current content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_587 =====
587
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students develop a simple draft for a prepared/or unprepared writing task about the current 
content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
c) Students organise and/or produce materials relevant to the content for a prepared/
unprepared writing task, appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level. 
ENG.6.2.W4.  Students can individually construct/form content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “classroom life with daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; 
cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50”.
a) Students present appropriate and accurate materials for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task about the current theme according to the assigned writing type, age, and language 
level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and rules relevant to the assigned writing 
type for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language chunks accurately and appropriately 
for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task about the current content by selecting them 
according to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
d) Students express important messages in the written current content to the reader accurately 
and appropriately for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
ENG.6.2.W5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information in the new written tasks about 
the “classroom life with daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal 
numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50” to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information in the current content or similar information in a different content 
by internalising and selecting it individually and reorganising it as required and meaningfully in 
different contexts.
b) Students exchange information/ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge meaningfully with others.
ENG.6.2.W6.  Students can reflect on their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “classroom life with daily and study 
routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 
1-50” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in 
relation to the current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in relation to the 
writing-expression process about the current content with others.
c) Students produce new written products related to the current writing-expression content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities.
ENG.6.2.S1.  Students can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on 
“classroom life with daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal 
numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50”.
a) Students make connections with the current content by activating their pre-existing 
knowledge and experiences that they have recalled in the listening (to)/watching/reading 
sections previously.
ENG.6.2.S2.  Students can use the model/example for producing verbal content about the current content 
on “classroom life with daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal 
numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50”.
a) Students listen (to)/watch/read the model/example for the current content with the help of 
audio/visual/written elements.

===== PDF_PAGE_588 =====
588
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.6.2.S3.  Students can organise a new verbal content on “classroom life with daily and study routines; 
learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50” by 
speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students recognise what form and type of content is expected and assigned for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations based on audio/visual/written content as provided in the 
model/example.
b) Students organise the content for prepared/unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate 
and accurate way as they have heard/seen/read in the model/example.
c) Students develop a draft for prepared/unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the 
age and language level as presented in the model/sample content.
d) Students organise supplementary audio/visual/written materials for prepared/or unprepared 
speaking situations, appropriate to age and language level, as provided in the model/sample 
content.
e) Students organise the information about the current content to be presented for prepared/or 
unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate way as required.
ENG.6.2.S4.  Students can construct a new verbal content on “classroom life with daily and study routines; 
learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50” by 
speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students use target pronunciation, vocabulary, language chunks, and forms of discourse 
related to the current content effectively by selecting them accurately and appropriately for 
prepared/unprepared speaking situations.
b) Students present individually prepared content in an accurate and efficient way as presented 
in the model/example for prepared speaking situations clearly, efficiently, and appropriately.
c) Students present individually prepared information in an accurate and efficient way as 
presented in the model/example for unprepared speaking situations.
d) Students express the message about the current content clearly to the reader by using all 
supplementary elements and body language in an appropriate and accurate way in context for 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.6.2.S5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information about the “classroom life with daily 
and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal 
numbers 1-50” to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information presented in the current content by reorganising it appropriately, 
efficiently, individually, and verbally in different contexts.
b) Students engage in appropriate and efficient verbal communication by sharing the 
reconstructed meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.6.2.S6.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
speaking-expression process about the current content, “classroom life with daily and study 
routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 
1-50” to communicate with other people in relation to themselves or others, both individually 
and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully in 
relation to the speaking-expression process about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_589 =====
589
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
CLASSROOM LIFE
Sub-themes: Daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-500; 
ordinal numbers 1-50
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for daily and study routines:
Nouns: A habit, a research.
Verbs: To brush,  to rest, to search, to focus, to review, to recycle, to repeat, to revise, to remember, to 
practise, to work in pairs, to work in groups, to share.
Adjectives: Regular, after, before.
Adverbs: Firstly, normally.
Vocabulary for learning activities in the classroom:
Nouns: A diary, a level, a sort, learning, a method, teaching, an activity, a task, an exercise, a peer, a pair, a 
group.
Verbs: To continue, to mark, to count, to read silently, to read aloud.
Adjectives: Creative, effective.
Adverbs: Easily, in turns, one after another, to each other, together.
Vocabulary for cardinal numbers 100-500: From 100 to 500.
Vocabulary for ordinal numbers 1-50: From 1st to 50th.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Present Progressive Tense: (I am reviewing my notes for the test now).
-The Present Progressive Tense vs the Simple Present Tense: (I brush my teeth every morning, but today I 
am brushing them after breakfast).
-Question tags for The Present Progressive Tense and the Simple Present Tense: (She is marking the tests 
now, isn’t she? They study in the library every day, don’t they?)
-Possessive adjectives: (I always keep my diary on the table).
-Word order with adverbs: (He normally brushes his teeth after breakfast).
-Question: How often: (How often do you review your notes before a test?)
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of The Present Progressive Tense: Indicating actions happening right now or ongoing activities.
-Use of Present Progressive Tense vs Present Simple Tense:  Comparing actions happening right now and 
general truths, habits, routines.
-Use of question tags for the Simple Present Tense and Progressive Tense: Confirming general truths, 
actions or habits and confirming ongoing action.

===== PDF_PAGE_590 =====
590
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
-Use of possessive adjectives: Showing ownership in relation to nouns.
-Use of the word order with adverbs: Organizing adverbs correctly to modify verbs, adjectives, or other 
adverbs.
-Use of question: How often: Asking about the frequency of an action.
Target Social Language in Use: 
I got full marks on the English test! 
Do we have to discuss the answers in pairs? 
I need some help with vocabulary work!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use: 
Intonation of negative statements
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “classroom life” and its components such as “daily and study routines; 
learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50” is present in almost 
all languages. People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and 
transfer it to their new language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what 
“classroom life” and its components such as “daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; 
cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50” means but will not know how to say them in a foreign 
language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in 
their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more easily in a 
foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts
Daily routines, study routines, learning activities, learning activities in the classroom, cardinal numbers: 100-
500; ordinal numbers: 1-50.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will prepare a game about numbers focusing on using cardinal 
numbers (100-500) and ordinal numbers (1-50). They will design a game, such as a board game, card game, or 
quiz, where players solve problems or answer questions about these numbers. They will also place questions 
about school routines and learning activities to be answered in an order with given numbers.  They will write 
simple rules for their games and create challenges related to classroom life, such as arranging items in order 
or counting objects. They will present their games to classmates, explain how to play, and let others try them. 
The project should include colourful designs, creative questions, and clear instructions. The assignment will 
be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme. 
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “classroom life” and its components such as “daily and study 
routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50”. As they are 
lower secondary school students in year 6 (six), they can know what “classroom life” and its components such 
as “daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 
1-50” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people who start to learn a new language bring 
their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and transfer it to their new language learning 
context. However, they may not know how to say these things in a foreign language if this has not yet been 
covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own language can help 
them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a foreign language, in this case English.
As they are students in year 6 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about 

===== PDF_PAGE_591 =====
591
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
“classroom life” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or years. These 
grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning of the year, and 
they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current theme, so 
that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about the “classroom life” and its components such as “daily and study routines; learning activities 
in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50”. Recalling and practising with relevant 
vocabulary and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful 
as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “classroom life”. Therefore, a 
dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary and language grammar items from the previous themes 
in previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance 
can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to understand and use 
the previously learnt vocabulary and grammatical items to build their competence in the current theme. It 
can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the 
new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics 
throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students can recall the current (theme) concept of “classroom life” and its components such as “daily and 
study routines; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50” by 
remembering their pre-existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their 
own language to make links with the current activities in the current theme in English without translating 
anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
various materials such as short scene from a film, series, a part from a story, a poster etc. which is appropriate 
to the age, level, and pedagogy could be used before the main teaching/learning flow of the class begins. 
They would give a general idea of the theme. Students are facilitated with the relevant materials through 
various activities.  When they have finished working on it, the teacher asks them in English if they understood 
what it was about. For checking their understanding, she/he can design several activities. For instance, they 
can write a related word that they know in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways can be tried.
The teacher asks them to wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the digital introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any 
further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme “classroom life”in the classroom, to prepare the students emotionally, 
cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker 
to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This 
could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing 
a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote/a very short story, watching a 
pantomime/cartoon story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require 
any knowledge of English  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4). 
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around “classroom life” and sub-themes “daily and study routines; learning 
activities in the classroom;cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50” , allowing students to build 

===== PDF_PAGE_592 =====
592
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
background knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. 
They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes 
of the theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, 
they are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG6.2.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: Having seen a visual about and having guessed 
the topic of “classroom life” during the background recall session, students can have a vision of the current 
theme as a general concept in the current  (new) theme  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.1, V3.2,V4.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.11, 
CS2.16.2). So, a further concept check with listening/watching for gist activities including more guessing 
games using clues from some pictures, realia, short video clips etc. help them prepare for the current theme  
(CS2.6, CS2.8).  For each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, 
and it is visited several times while going through the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, 
grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole theme  (CS2.14).  It is both an 
entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. The teacher asks them whether 
their guesses during the background recall session were correct and also what they think the introductory 
digital story that they are going to watch could be about  (CS2.8).  As they have already seen a scene from 
a film about the theme and the pictures, realia, etc. they can easily answer what the current theme will be 
about and that their guesses were true  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.1, V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS2, 
LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17). 
ENG6.2.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING: The teacher asks the students to 
watch the introductory digital story carefully, recalling the work done with visuals  (the scene from a film, 
pictures, realia, or video clips about the theme shown earlier)   (CS2.11) .  Students watch the introductory 
digital story to consolidate the identification of the theme “classroom life” in it as a whole  (CS2.13) without 
stopping the video at any point, so that the students can understand the theme holistically  (D3.2, SELS1.1, 
V3.1, V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.14, CS2.16.2). 
ENG6.2.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw students’ attention to 
the content, some realia brought into the classroom by the teacher could be used  (V3.1, V3.2, V4.2).  The 
teacher could show the corresponding objects to the students when the corresponding vocabulary for 
the main components of the theme “classroom life” is mentioned in the introductory digital story, without 
stopping the video while the students watch the story  (CS2.6).  When they have watched the whole story, the 
teacher could show the realia items on the table and ask questions with two options  (CS2.5).  As one of the 
words is from the previous themes, students could hear, understand, recognise and learn the  (new) target 
vocabulary for each main component of the theme easily  (CS2.1).  In this way, the teacher could engage in 
a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the components of the theme, and that 
they have understood each realia item is about one component  (CS2.8).  Further activities and games can 
be played at this stage to reinforce the general meaning of the theme through its main components  (D1.1, 
D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4). 
To check whether the students understand the general topic of the theme “classroom life” and remember 
the sequence of the scenes of the introductory digital story, the teacher shows an organiser with the mixed 

===== PDF_PAGE_593 =====
593
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the students to look at the images/pictures 
of the scenes for a while  (CS2.3).  She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs in their seats with 
the mixed paper pictures she/he has already given to the students  (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS4, LS6) . 
When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for the scenes of the story, the teacher asks the students 
to take turns or volunteer to sort the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board  (or the pictures on the 
blackboard)  (SELS1.2, CS2.6, CS2.10) .  This will help the students to organise the story as a whole so that 
they can identify the main theme and the components of the theme from their memories  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, 
V16.3, V20.4, CS2.12). 
ENG6.2.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/ W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY : The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process   (SELS1.3, V3.4) . Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3,V12.1, 
LS5, LS6).  The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design  (V10.3). 
ENG6.2.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION : To practise pronunciation of the new target words, word 
groups, language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “classroom life” and the words 
and/or word groups for the sub-themes “daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom; 
cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50”, the teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the 
whole or some extracts from the introductory digital story by noticing how words are pronounced  (V3.1, 
V3.2, V3.3, V4.2,LS4, CS2.6).  She/He asks them to repeat the word aloud when she/he stops the video for a 
word and says it. The teacher then asks the students to listen and repeat the same words aloud a few times 
as a whole class after listening to the recordings that she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 
programmes  (LS2, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as showing the 
picture of the target word to the students to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when 
they hear the word from the recording, and then both  (CS2.8).  To help the students pronounce the words 
accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/
him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers  (D3.2, D3.6, 
SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, CS2.14). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Practice of pronunciation could be done with different 
forms of TPR, gamification and drama activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words/word groups for 
the sub-themes “daily and study routines; learning activities in the classroom;cardinal numbers 100-500; 
ordinal numbers 1-50”, the students listen  (CS2.9); then the teacher says the target words/word groups and 
acts them out, the students repeat after her/him  (SELS2.1, CS2.14).  Then the teacher and the students say 
the target words/word groups and act them out together at the same time. Then the teacher says the words/
word groups and acts them out. These activities can be done through the actions for the sub-themes  (D2.3, 
D2.5,V3.1, V3.2, V3.3, V4.2). As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, sadly, 
angrily, etc. using different tones of voice  (SELS2.3, CS2.8, CS2.11).  They also practise for the target social 
language chunks using the same or similar techniques. During the repetitions, they point to relevant pictures 
that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom  (CS2.12).  Some action sequences are also 
created in which the students can practise the social language in a fun way by repeating, pointing, miming, 
and acting out in several games  (SELS2.1, V7.2, LS5, LS6, LS9). The teacher facilitates some activities with 
dialogues and games in which students can practice the target pronunciation by selecting and using them 
accurately, naturally, and authentically  (CS3.1).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such 

===== PDF_PAGE_594 =====
594
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
as shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several 
sound drills  (SELS2.2).  The target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are 
practised through them  (CS2.13).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, D2.5, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4).  
ENG6.2.R1.
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS: The teacher facilitates reading and writing 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise 
techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the 
theme in various forms and amounts. Reading is done in two ways in the theme by using the written version 
of the introductory digital story and additional reading texts in reading sections of the instructional material 
to be used  (V3.2, LS2, LS4) .  Various reading styles including silent reading, speed reading, jigsaw reading 
and basic reading techniques including skimming, scanning, and reading for details during pre-reading, 
while-reading and post-reading phases are used in the theme   (V3.4, LS1, CS2.3, CS2.6) . The ultimate aim 
of reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills and 
critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend and talk/write about the content in a meaningful and 
communicative way  (V3.3, V7.2, LS5, CS3.3). For the initial stage of reading, the teacher asks the students 
to look at the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) 
surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory story or a new text in the reading section of 
the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the conceptual meanings they already have about 
the theme  (CS2.8).  At this stage, the teacher could ask the students to read the title of the theme and ask 
the students which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title  (SELS1.1, 
CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new words or the words they do not know. 
She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity by using the words they know and that there is time 
to work on the new words of the new theme later  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, CS2.10, CS2.12). 
ENG6.2.R2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING : Students go on with a scanning activity to find 
out the most important details of the introductory digital story and/or a new text in the reading section which 
is organised to help students to know more about the reading content  (CS2.6, CS2.7).  In this way they could 
be able to recognise the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or 
tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned  (quickly read) in the story  (CS2.4).  By doing so, they 
will be able to understand the story/text in general using the main elements  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, V3.4, LS1). 
ENG6.2.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Then the teacher asks the students to do a jigsaw reading activity, 
so she/he shows the written version of the introductory digital story or the text in the reading section on the 
blackboard/Smart Board  (or in any other teaching material).  She/He asks the students to work in pairs to 
share the text  (SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the text and the second peer reads the other half 
of the text in a given time  (CS2.6).  They are then asked to share what they have understood from their part 
with their peer, also in a given time. In this way, they talk about the whole story after reading it silently, in the 
jigsaw reading style  (D2.4, D3.6, V3.4, V4.2, V16.2, LS1, LS6,CS2.8, CS2.9) .  Some speed-reading activities 
can be used to develop students’ reading and comprehension skills. These activities can be evaluated as 
explained in the item  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After 
sharing their parts, students proceed with the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical 
chunks, and semantic meaning relatively with the help of the teacher  (CS2.14).  For dealing with the semantic 
meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, 
open-ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1).  From display to communicative open-ended, various 

===== PDF_PAGE_595 =====
595
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
types of questions are used to understand the meaning of the text  (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, CS2.6).  During this 
process students work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings  (D3.2, D3.7, V3.3, 
V7.2, V20.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 
ENG6.2.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process  (SELS1.3).  Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive   (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates 
different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design   (D 2.3, D3.5, 
V4.2, V6.2, V10.3, V12.1, LS1, LS6). 
ENG6.2.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY : At this stage, students remember what the 
theme is about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/ 
watching, and pre-reading sessions  (SELS1.1).  As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal with the 
main components and target vocabulary of the theme  (V3.2, LS1). 
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY : A scanning activity to find out the main details of the 
introductory digital story  (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help students to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some important pictures, words or events about the main components 
of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen 
and scanned  (quickly read) in the story. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general 
by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items  (D3.2, D3.6, LS1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then the students read the written version of the digital story again silently,  
(or the reading text in the reading section), to check whether they know any of the target vocabulary items 
about the theme  (V3.1, V3.2, V4.2, CS2.8). They underline the words whose meaning they do not know while 
reading silently  (CS2.17).  Students say these words when they finish reading and the teacher writes these 
words on the Smart Board/blackboard/ white board as they say them. The teacher writes only the target 
words on the Smart Board/blackboard as active words that the students have said. She/He quickly deals 
with the non-target passive vocabulary items by using pictures, mimics, gestures, imitations, examples, 
etc. But she/he takes time to facilitate the teaching of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.2, V3.3, V3.4, LS2, 
LS4,CS2.4, CS2.5, CS2.7). 
To introduce and practise the meanings of the target vocabulary related to the theme, that the students do 
not know, the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story  (or the video of the reading 
text if there is one) again. From the beginning, whenever a target item is mentioned, the teacher stops the 
video and asks several questions in the form of two options, one of which is a word from the previous themes 
that they already know  (V3.1, V3.2, V4.2, CS2.16.1, CS2.6).  By guessing what they are, the students hear 
the English equivalents of the words for the theme and they answer as a whole class in chorus. In this way, 
they are introduced to the meanings of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6,D3.7, CS2.10).  This is conducted in the 
form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (SELS2.1)  (7),  (8), and  (9) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V3.1, V3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, 
LS1, LS2, LS4).  After having watched the introductory digital story, the teacher shows some pictures for 
the sub-themes, on the walls as clues and says the words aloud several times in sentences by pointing to 
the pictures and the students repeat after her/him  (D2.3, V3.1, V3.2, CS2.6, CS2.11) .  In this way, the main 
vocabulary items of the theme are introduced to the students in English  (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V3.1, V3.2, V4.2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_596 =====
596
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY : The teacher can prepare an activity using the Web 2.0 
programme with images/pictures, and symbolic images for some categories about the components of the 
theme “classroom life”. She/He also prepares mixed images/pictures for target vocabulary items for the 
activities which can be done in relation to the components. She/He asks the students to look at the mixed 
pile of images/pictures of the main components of the theme on the Smart Board screen and scan them for 
a while to remember them  (V3.1, V3.2, V4.2 CS2.4 ). She/He explains to the students that the items will be 
placed under the correct category, but first she/he gives the students the cut-out pictures of the activities 
and a large sheet of paper with the categories written on it and the cut-out pictures will be placed under 
each category correctly  (V3.3, L2, LS4, CS2.5). The teacher asks them to work in pairs and place the cut-out 
pictures in the right category and ask each other some questions about the theme  (D3.2, D3.8, SELS2.2, 
V3.1, V3.2, V4.2). When the students have finished working with the cut-out pictures and asking and 
answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart Board 
and drag the corresponding images/pictures under the right category on the screen  (SELS1.2, V3.4, V20.4, 
LS1, LS4, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the main concept and its components are 
consolidated through categorisation. This activity can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if 
there is a problem with technology. The teacher asks the students to copy the words next to the pictures 
they have pasted or drawn in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture 
dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling  (D3.2, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, 
LS9). To consolidate the meaning, selection, and use of the new target vocabulary items, the teacher could 
organise activities and tasks using pictures, flashcards, sounds, realia, and any other materials to play games 
such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, Wordscapes, Scrabble, Pictionary, Letter Scramble, 
Acronyms, Charades etc. Games could be adapted according to the teacher’s objectives  (pronunciation, 
spelling, meaning, selection, use etc.), age, interests and language level of the students  (CS2.13).  Students 
can be asked to create their own games to use the target vocabulary items in context  (D2.5, D.3.3, SELS3.1, 
SELS3.2, V3.1, V3.2, V4.2, V4.4, V7.2, LS9, CS2.20) Students’ learning can be checked as described in items  
(3), and  (4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG6.2.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS : To draw the students’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme “classroom life”, the introductory digital story or an extract from it played so that the 
students can notice the target language chunks  (D3.2, CS2.2).  While watching the introductory digital story, 
the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by 
showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the students to do the same  (V3.2, LS2, CS2.14). She could 
hold up large pictures corresponding to the chunks when they are mentioned in the digital story to draw the 
students’ attention. The sentences with the target chunks are also written and placed on the Smart Board/
blackboard/ whiteboard. The teacher also points to these sentences while pointing to the scenes in the story 
where they appear. There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Students can 
automatically and naturally identify the use of the target language chunks in the current context created in 
the introductory digital story without working on any rules or structures  (SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, 
CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  To check the students’ identification of the target language chunks, after the students 
have finished watching the introductory digital story, the teacher asks them to read the sentences with the 
target language chunks written by the teacher on the Smart Board /blackboard/whiteboard and asks them 
to find the same or similar sentences in the written version of the introductory digital story or another text 
that is shown on the Smart Board  (D3.2, SELS3.2, V3.3). She/He also asks them to find the same or similar 
sentences with these chunks which are given in different types of tables prepared by the teacher  (CS2.7).  
These tables do not include any explanations of grammatical rules, explanations, or formulas, and they only 
contain example sentences with target chunks in which important words with the target grammar are written 
in bold or different colours to attract students’ attention. The teacher asks them to look at the words in bold 
or in different colours and asks students to examine them  (CS2.9).  Then the teacher asks the students 
to copy these sentences with target chunks written in bold or different colours into their notebooks. The 

===== PDF_PAGE_597 =====
597
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
teacher asks the students to make very similar sentences using the target words and asks them to share their 
sentences with each other in pairs, and then with the class  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, D3.2, V4.2, CS2.13,CS2.14, 
CS2.16.1, CS2.16.2).  Both the teacher and the class members give feedback to the students as they say their 
sentences  (CS2.19).  The teacher gives all students a checklist with simple symbols to evaluate each other’s 
work as explained in the items  (5) and  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, LS6). 
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate students’ further practice with the target 
language chunks in the theme , the teacher shows some other sentences with these chunks in another 
context such as a short story, a short paragraph, and a short dialogue etc. and asks students to find the 
sentences with the target chunks in them   and  asks  if  they  understand  them  (SELS3.2, V3.1, V3.2,V3.3, 
V4.2, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.8).  She/He gives some written activities and exercises to practise the target chunks 
in context. She/He also facilitates more fun activities and as described in items  (5),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. To consolidate the target language 
chunks, the teacher organises different fun activity and game bundles that the students can practise and 
consolidate them  (CS2.13) where their learning can be checked as described in item  (10) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (D2.5, V4.4). 
ENG6.2.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION : Practising through writing: Writing activities 
help students  to  produce  and  display  meaningful  written  language  for  their  personal  expression  and 
communication with others, by using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and 
the social language in this theme, as in other themes (V3.1, V3.2,V4.2). 
ENG6.2.W2.
RECOGNISING THE MODEL:  Initially, students produce very limited and short pieces of writing such as 
sentences to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “classroom life”. They practise 
the language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat or simply exp lain what they hear 
and see in context and what they are asked to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy to be 
able to notice significant points and elements in it  (SELS3.1).  While copying a short model writing, they 
become aware of the aspects such as the use of words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on  
(D3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). 
ENG6.2.W3.
CREATING THE WRITING CONTENT: Controlled writing of words and sentences turns to short paragraphs in 
a process writing manner with the support of the teacher’s feedback in the theme. This process is expanded 
and supported by several practical activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/ 
pantomime/video stories, dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, 
etc. to practise further by writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (D1.3, D3.1, SELS3.2,V3.4, V4.4, V7.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG6.2.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 

===== PDF_PAGE_598 =====
598
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
projects, scripts for plays, diaries/journals, blogs, very short film scenarios, etc. to express their ideas, 
thoughts, and feelings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be contextual, practical, 
authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests and language level  (V3.4, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, 
LS9). 
ENG6.2.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students  interact  and  communicate 
with peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme in their writing  (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V3.1,V3.2, V3.4, 
V4.2, LS9, CS2.20) . AI- based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to 
authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home in a variety 
of ways  (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3,V7.2, LS2, CS2.20) . These activities are evaluated as described in items  
(11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles  for  the  Implementation  of  the  English  Curriculum.
ENG6.2.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (D1.5, SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, 
LS1, LS6). 
ENG6.2.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING: The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from the 
first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance students’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language expressions of the theme  (V3.1, 
V3.2, V3.4). 
ENG6.2.S2
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL: In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, students 
recognise how the language with the target language items is used  (CS2.6).  They practise the language in a 
controlled way, by telling, repeating, explaining what they hear and see in the context  (D1.3, D3.2, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.4). 
ENG6.2.S3
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT : In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues etc. as new opportunities for the students to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc.  (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13). 
ENG6.2.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact with peers 
and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 

===== PDF_PAGE_599 =====
599
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
grammar in use, and the social language for the theme  (SELS2.2,SELS3.2, V3.1, V3.2, V4.2, CS2.20). AI-
based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They 
can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, 
V7.2,LS2, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG6.2.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Students communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related 
to the theme “classroom life” in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.3, CS2.20).  Picture 
strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision  (V3.4, V4.2, V12.1, 
LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and 
appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. Storification and gamification techniques are 
actively and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme. Students 
are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, 
speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people in 
or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar in use, and the 
social language for the theme and its components such as “daily and study routines; learning activities in the 
classroom; cardinal numbers 100-500; ordinal numbers 1-50”  (V3.1, V3.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS4, CS3.1, CS2.20).   
AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. 
They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings  (D2.5, D3.3, 
SELS3.3, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items  (7),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use 
and practise by communicating with others.
ENG6.2.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole speaking-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different activities for 
creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, LS1, LS6). 
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To practise actions happening at present in English by creating a short, imaginative story based 
on a given scenario. 
Activity 1: Scene Creators
The teacher divides the class into pairs or small groups of 3-4 students and gives each group a set of “What’s 
Happening Right Now?” scenario cards (e.g., “You are at a circus”, “You are in a shopping centre”, “You are at 
a birthday party”). Each group chooses a scenario card and discusses the actions happening in that scene. 
Each group works together to list the actions happening in their scenario in a specific and imaginative way 
(e.g., “People are swimming”, “A dog is barking”, “The sun is shining”). Once they have their list, they combine 
the actions into a cohesive short story, creating a narrative that describes what’s happening in the scene in 
real-time. The teacher encourages students to think about the setting, the characters involved, and how 
they can create a detailed and engaging story using the target grammar. For example: “At the beach, people 
are playing volleyball. Some children are building sandcastles, and a man is selling ice cream. A family is 
sitting on a blanket and having a picnic”. Students share their stories with the rest of the class, reading them 
aloud or presenting them as a group. After each group shares their story, the teacher provides feedback on 

===== PDF_PAGE_600 =====
600
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
language use and focuses on how well students have applied the target grammar and any common errors. 
Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To practise actions happening at present in English by creating a short, imaginative dialogue 
between two friends based on a given scenario.
Activity 1: Scene Creators
The teacher divides the class into pairs or small groups of 3-4 students and gives each group a set of “What’s 
Happening Right Now?” scenario cards (e.g., “You are at a circus”, “You are in a shopping centre”, “You are at 
a birthday party”). Each group chooses a scenario card and discusses the actions happening in that scene. 
Each group works together to create a dialogue between two characters in the scene (e.g., two friends at 
the zoo). Students read their dialogue aloud to the rest of the class. After each group shares their dialogue, 
the teacher provides feedback on language use and focuses on how well students have applied the target 
grammar and any common errors. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_601 =====
601
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 3: PERSONAL LIFE
Sub-themes: Body parts, physical appearance and 
clothes; personality and character
This theme is centred on the concept of “personal life” and covers the sub-
themes of “body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and 
character”.  These components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning 
process through the contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical 
structures, phonological features, and social language expressions. The 
learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, 
and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ developmental 
level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to 
equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively 
use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3.Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8.Questioning
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill    
     Values V1. Justice, V2. Family Integrity, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V12. Patience, V16. Responsibility, 
V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Physical Education and Sports, Visual Arts, 
Music, Information Technologies and Software

===== PDF_PAGE_602 =====
602
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering 
Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, 
CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. 
Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation 
Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, 
CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_603 =====
603
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 6 is structured based on semi-holistic/semi-inductive approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.6.3.L1.  Students can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “personal life with body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and 
character”  carefully.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience related to the current theme 
and content by recalling their background knowledge imaginatively in her/his own language 
without speaking it.
b) Students identify significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge and 
experiences and the clues to the current content without translation.
c) Students make predictions about the current content on “personal life” by using the 
relationships that they recognised accurately by looking at the provided realia, pictures, and 
context.
d) Students make predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/visual 
elements in relation to the current theme.
ENG.6.3.L2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “personal life with body parts, 
physical appearance and clothes; personality and character”  together through significant 
details and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Students comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole.
b) Students recognise the significant details and components within the whole current content 
by listening (to) and watching it again in a careful manner.
ENG.6.3.L3.  Students can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “personal life with 
body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character” through significant 
details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Students check any initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals surrounding the current 
content.
b) Students make important and necessary classifications in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
c) Students make important and necessary comparisons in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content with the help of classifications and comparisons made 
earlier.
e) Students make significant inferences that contribute to the understanding of the meaning of 
the generally perceived current content.
f) Students construct the meaning of the current content in detail through the classifications/
comparisons/inferences made earlier in relation to it.
g) Students internalise the current content in an individualised and appropriate way according to 
age and language level.
ENG.6.3.L4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully 
about the whole listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content 
on “personal life with body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character”.
a) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content.

===== PDF_PAGE_604 =====
604
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content by sharing them with others.
ENG.6.3.P1.  Students can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“personal life with body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character”  
accurately, authentically, and naturally through spontaneous decision-making processes and 
use it in an appropriate and effective way when communicating with others.
a) Students listen to the current content by paying attention to the target phonological aspects 
including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Students reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source 
several times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Students recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts.
d) Students recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they 
are heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Students use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.6.3.R1.  Students can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content on 
“personal life with body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character”. 
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content efficiently.
b) Students recognise significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Students make significant preliminary predictions about the current content based on 
recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring the audio-visual 
clues surrounding it.
ENG.6.3.R2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “personal life with body parts, 
physical appearance and clothes; personality and character”  through skimming (looking 
quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Students review the current content by looking at the surrounding audio/visual materials to 
identify what it is about in general through skimming.
b) Students read the current content to scan the major components silently and quickly with the 
help of the clues provided. 
c) Students carefully read the current content silently and carefully to find significant details and 
components belonging to the theme.
ENG.6.3.R3.  Students can make meaning of / derive meaning from the current content about “personal 
life with body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character” by reading 
it carefully.
a) Students carefully check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial and detailed 
predictions that are made earlier. 
b) Students classify the significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
c) Students compare significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.

===== PDF_PAGE_605 =====
605
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships within the current 
content that contribute to the perception of the content in a meaningful way.
e) Students make meaningful inferences from the information in the current content by 
examining it carefully.
f) Students internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to age and language level.
ENG.6.3.R4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “personal life with body parts, 
physical appearance and clothes; personality and character” in relation to themselves or 
others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have 
been carefully examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process.
b) Students convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been carefully 
examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing 
them with others.
c) Students produce new products related to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities. 
ENG.6.3.V1.  Students can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “personal 
life with body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character” accurately, 
authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when 
communicating with others.
a) Students guess the main topic of the current content from the audio/visual/written elements 
(e.g. sound, voices, scenes, written words) in the contextual material by listening (to)/watching/
reading it several times for recognition.
b) Students recognise sub-themes/key components of the target words to which they belong in 
the current content by scanning.
c) Students recognise the target words related to the main components of the current content 
with the help of the audio/visual/written elements and other clues.
d) Students repeat aloud the relevant target key components and target vocabulary in the 
current content with the whole class, in groups, and then individually together with or after 
listening (to)/watching/reading the source material.
e) Students recognise the use of target words and expressions in the current content by making 
various guesses with the help of supplementary elements.
f) Students make context-appropriate selections automatically by associating target words 
with their pre-existing conceptual meanings in the mind without analysing their contextual 
meaning in detail. 
g) Students use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts by being aware of their differences when communicating with others.
ENG.6.3.G1.  Students can select and use the target grammatical elements of the current content about 
“personal life with body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character” 
accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively 
when communicating with others.
a) Students become familiar with the current content by listening (to)/watching/reading it a few 
times attentively.
b) Students listen (to)/watch/read the same content, attentively and mindfully, including the use 
of target grammatical chunks presented verbally in context with the help of body language.

===== PDF_PAGE_606 =====
606
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students verbally and automatically repeat simple and meaningful clauses/sentences 
containing target grammatical chunks that they have noticed in the current content that they 
have heard/viewed/read without explicit knowledge of the rules.
d) Students act out physically the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks 
in the current content heard/viewed/read by repeating them several times without knowing, 
analysing, and thinking about their rules.
e) Students see and read the example sentences containing target grammatical chunks provided 
for language awareness carefully.
f) Students gain awareness of clauses/sentences that contain target grammatical chunks that 
are presented for the purpose of raising language awareness.
g) Students recognise the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks when 
they encounter them by seeing and/or hearing them in different contexts.
h) Students use the recognised target grammatical chunks naturally, authentically, and 
automatically in new contextual tasks and activities without analysing their rules.
i) Students produce new and meaningful verbal/written content about the current theme by 
using the target grammatical chunks in meaningful tasks without knowing and analysing their 
rules.
j) Students use the target language chunks authentically, automatically, and naturally in 
communication processes without analysing their rules in meaningful contexts.
ENG.6.3.W1.  Students can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on 
“personal life with body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character”.
a) Students relate their pre-existing knowledge and experience used in the initial processes of 
writing-expression skills to the current content by activating them in relation with the current 
content.
b) Students understand what the writing task and its content are in relation to the current 
content correctly by making use of their pre-existing knowledge and experience as guided and 
assigned.
ENG.6.3.W2.  Students can understand the model/example for the writing task about the current content on 
“personal life with body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character”.
a) Students understand the components and details of the content in the provided model/
sample which is displayed as a guide, by examining it carefully.
ENG.6.3.W3.  Students can organise a content for the assigned writing task on the current content 
“personal life with body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character” 
based on the model/example provided.
a) Students conduct preliminary research for a prepared writing situation according to the 
current content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
b) Students develop a simple draft for a prepared/or unprepared writing task about the current 
content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
c) Students organise and/or produce materials relevant to the content for a prepared/
unprepared writing task, appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level. 
ENG.6.3.W4.  Students can individually construct/form content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “personal life with body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and 
character” .
a) Students present appropriate and accurate materials for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task about the current theme according to the assigned writing type, age, and language 
level.

===== PDF_PAGE_607 =====
607
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and rules relevant to the assigned writing 
type for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language chunks accurately and appropriately 
for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task about the current content by selecting them 
according to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
d) Students express important messages in the written current content to the reader accurately 
and appropriately for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
ENG.6.3.W5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information in the new written tasks about 
the“personal life with body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character” 
to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information in the current content or similar information in a different content 
by internalising and selecting it individually and reorganising it as required and meaningfully in 
different contexts.
b) Students exchange information/ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge meaningfully with others.
ENG.6.3.W6.  Students can reflect on their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “personal life with body parts, physical 
appearance and clothes; personality and character” in relation to themselves or others, both 
individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in 
relation to the current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in relation to the 
writing-expression process about the current content with others.
c) Students produce new written products related to the current writing-expression content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities.
ENG.6.3.S1.  Students can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on 
“personal life with body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character”.
a) Students make connections with the current content by activating their pre-existing 
knowledge and experiences that they have recalled in the listening (to)/watching/reading 
sections previously.
ENG.6.3.S2.  Students can use the model/example for producing verbal content about the current content 
on “personal life with body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character”.
a) Students listen (to)/watch/read the model/example for the current content with the help of 
audio/visual/written elements.
ENG.6.3.S3.  Students can organise a new verbal content on “personal life with body parts, physical 
appearance and clothes; personality and character” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and 
authentically.
a) Students recognise what form and type of content is expected and assigned for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations based on audio/visual/written content as provided in the 
model/example.
b) Students organise the content for prepared/unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate 
and accurate way as they have heard/seen/read in the model/example.
c) Students develop a draft for prepared/unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the 
age and language level as presented in the model/sample content.
d) Students organise supplementary audio/visual/written materials for prepared/or unprepared 
speaking situations, appropriate to age and language level, as provided in the model/sample 
content.

===== PDF_PAGE_608 =====
608
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
e) Students organise the information about the current content to be presented for prepared/or 
unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate way as required.
ENG.6.3.S4.  Students can construct a new verbal content on “personal life with body parts, physical 
appearance and clothes; personality and character” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and 
authentically.
a) Students use target pronunciation, vocabulary, language chunks, and forms of discourse 
related to the current content effectively by selecting them accurately and appropriately for 
prepared/unprepared speaking situations.
b) Students present individually prepared content in an accurate and efficient way as presented 
in the model/example for prepared speaking situations clearly, efficiently, and appropriately.
c) Students present individually prepared information in an accurate and efficient way as 
presented in the model/example for unprepared speaking situations.
d) Students express the message about the current content clearly to the reader by using all 
supplementary elements and body language in an appropriate and accurate way in context for 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.6.3.S5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information about the “personal life with body 
parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character” to communicate with 
other people.
a) Students use the information presented in the current content by reorganising it appropriately, 
efficiently, individually, and verbally in different contexts.
b) Students engage in appropriate and efficient verbal communication by sharing the 
reconstructed meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.6.3.S6.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
speaking-expression process about the current content, “personal life with body parts, 
physical appearance and clothes; personality and character” to communicate with other 
people in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully in 
relation to the speaking-expression process about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_609 =====
609
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
PERSONAL LIFE
Sub-themes: body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for body parts, physical appearance and clothes
Nouns: Image, look, back, a leg, a heart, stomach, an ankle, skin, a swimsuit, tights, trainers, a necklace, a 
kit, a pocket, jewellery, a wallet, a bracelet, a purse, a chain, a knee.
Verbs: To seem.
Adjectives: Attractive, lovely, physical.
Adverbs: Simply.
Vocabulary for clothes Personality and character:  Character, personality, sense.
Verbs: to look.
Adjectives: Brilliant, clever, crazy, lazy, rude, social, weak, polite, caring, patient, serious, independent, 
organised, lazy, helpful, focused, simple, tidy.
Adverbs: Happily, sadly.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Have/Has got: (She has got a lovely necklace. I have got a new swimsuit for the summer).
-Wh questions (whose): (Whose wallet is this?)
-Comparative and superlative adjectives (regular and irregular): (She is taller than her sister. She is the tallest 
person in the room).
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of have/has got: Expressing possession.
-Use of wh- questions (whose): Requesting information about property, belongings, or association.
-Use of comparative and superlative adjectives (regular and irregular): Comparing two things or people and 
comparing three or more things or people.
Target Social Language in Use:
OK smarty pants, stop showing off!
You’re full of beans this morning!  
Don’t panic, just keep your cool!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
 Intonation of questions and question tags
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “personal life” and its components such as “body parts, physical appearance 
and clothes; personality and character” is present in almost all languages. People who start to learn a new 
language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to their new language learning. For 
instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what “personal life” and its components such as “body 

===== PDF_PAGE_610 =====
610
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character” means but will not know how to say them 
in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing 
knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more 
easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts:
body parts, physical appearance, clothes; personality, character
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will create a personal profile poster to introduce themselves in 
a creative way. They will include a drawing or a photo of themselves and label body parts, such as arms, 
legs, hands, and feet. They will describe their physical appearance using adjectives like tall, short, curly, or 
straight and list their favourite clothes, explaining when they wear them. They will also write a few sentences 
about their personality and character traits, such as being friendly, shy, or energetic. They can choose to 
write about their best friends if they like. The assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating 
scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “personal life” and its components such as “body parts, 
physical appearance and clothes; personality and character”. As they are lower secondary school students in 
year 6 (six), they can know what “personal life” and its components such as “body parts, physical appearance 
and clothes; personality and character” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people 
who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and 
transfer it to their new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these things in 
a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing 
knowledge in their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a 
foreign language, in this case English.
As they are students in year 6 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about 
“personal life” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or years. These 
grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning of the year, and 
they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current theme, so 
that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about the “personal life” and its components such as “body parts, physical appearance and clothes; 
personality and character”. Recalling and practising with relevant vocabulary and grammatical items in 
English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning 
the current content on the concept of “personal life”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise 
all vocabulary and language chunks from the previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in 
English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they 
remember and how much they are able to understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks 
to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to 
revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their 
performance can be evaluated by rubrics throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students can recall the current (theme) concept of “personal life” and its components such as “body parts, 
physical appearance and clothes; personality and character” by remembering their pre-existing background 
knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with the current 
activities in the current theme in English without translating anything until they start learning the target 
words in the current (new) concept in English.  

===== PDF_PAGE_611 =====
611
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
various materials such as short scene from a film, series, a part from a story, a poster etc. which is appropriate 
to the age, level, and pedagogy could be used before the main teaching/learning flow of the class begins. 
They would give a general idea of the theme. Students are facilitated with the relevant materials through 
various activities.  When they have finished working on it, the teacher asks them in English if they understood 
what it was about. For checking their understanding, she can design several activities. For instance, they can 
write a related word that they know in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways can be tried.
The teacher asks them to wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the digital introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any 
further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme  “personal life” in the classroom, to prepare the students emotionally, 
cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker 
to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This 
could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing 
a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote/a very short story, watching a 
pantomime/cartoon story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require 
any knowledge of English  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4). 
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills  (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around “personal life” and sub-themes “body parts, physical appearance 
and clothes; personality and character”, allowing students to build background knowledge through receptive 
skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful 
and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are 
sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely 
linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development and to 
increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a balanced integration of all the skills, 
where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) and 
respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their vocabulary, 
grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG6.3.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: Having seen a visual about and having guessed 
the topic of “personal life” during the background recall session, students can have a vision of the current 
theme as a general concept in the current  (new) theme (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, V10.1, V14.2, V15.2, V16.1, LS1, 
LS4,CS2.11, CS2.16.2).  So, a further concept check with listening/watching for gist activities including more 
guessing games using clues from some pictures, realia, short video clips etc. help them prepare for the 
current theme  (CS2.6, CS2.8).  For each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as the main context 
of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through the theme to cover target pronunciation, 
vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole theme  (CS2.14).  
It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. The teacher asks 
them whether their guesses during the background recall session were correct and also what they think 
the introductory digital story that they are going to watch could be about  (CS2.8).  As they have already 
seen a scene from a film about the theme and the pictures, realia, etc. they can easily answer what the 

===== PDF_PAGE_612 =====
612
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
current theme will be about and that their guesses were true  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.3, V3.4, 
V10.1,V14.2, V15.2, V16.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17). 
ENG6.3.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING: The teacher asks the students to 
watch the introductory digital story carefully, recalling the work done with visuals  (the scene from a film, 
pictures, realia, or video clips about the theme shown earlier)   (CS2.11) .  Students watch the introductory 
digital story to consolidate the identification of the “personal life”  in it as a whole  (CS2.13) without stopping 
the video at any point, so that the students can understand the theme holistically  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.3, V3.4, 
V10.1, V14.2, V15.2, V16.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.14, CS2.16.2). 
ENG6.3.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw students’ attention to the 
content, some realia brought into the classroom by the teacher could be used  (V10.1, V14.2, V15.2, V16.1) .  
The teacher could show the corresponding objects to the students when the corresponding vocabulary 
for the main components of the theme “personal life” is mentioned in the introductory digital story, without 
stopping the video while the students watch the story  (CS2.6).  When they have watched the whole story, the 
teacher could show the realia items on the table and ask questions with two options  (CS2.5).  As one of the 
words is from the previous themes, students could hear, understand, recognise and learn the  (new) target 
vocabulary for each main component of the theme easily  (CS2.1).  In this way, the teacher could engage in 
a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the components of the theme, and that 
they have understood each realia item is about one component  (CS2.8).  Further activities and games can 
be played at this stage to reinforce the general meaning of the theme through its main components  (D1.1, 
D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4). 
To check whether the students understand the general topic of the theme “personal life” and remember 
the sequence of the scenes of the introductory digital story, the teacher shows an organiser with the mixed 
images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the students to look at the images/pictures of 
the scenes for a while  (CS2.3).  She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs in their seats with the 
mixed paper pictures she/he has already given to the students  (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS4, LS6). When 
the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for the scenes of the story, the teacher asks the students to take 
turns or volunteer to sort the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board  (or the pictures on the blackboard)  
(SELS1.2, CS2.6, CS2.10) .  This will help the students to organise the story as a whole so that they can 
identify the main theme and the components of the theme from their memories  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, V16.3, 
V20.4, CS2.12). 
ENG6.3.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/ W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process   (SELS1.3, V3.4). Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3,V12.1, 
LS5, LS6).  The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design  (V10.3). 

===== PDF_PAGE_613 =====
613
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.3.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: To practise pronunciation of the new target words, word groups, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “personal life” and the words and/or word 
groups for the sub-themes “body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character”, the 
teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the whole or some extracts from the introductory digital story 
by noticing how words are pronounced  (V3.3, V10.1, V14.2, V15.2, V16.1 LS4, CS2.6) .  She/He asks them to 
repeat the word aloud when she/he stops the video for a word and says it. The teacher then asks the students 
to listen and repeat the same words aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to the recordings that 
she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes  (LS2, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer 
variations with some techniques such as showing the picture of the target word to the students to say the 
word or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the recording, and then both  
(CS2.8).  To help the students pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target 
word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small 
groups and then again as volunteers  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, CS2.14). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Practice of pronunciation could be done with different 
forms of TPR, gamification and drama activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words/word groups
for the sub-themes “body parts, physical appearance and clothes; personality and character” , the students 
listen  (CS2.9); then the teacher says the target words/word groups and acts them out, the students repeat 
after her/him  (SELS2.1, CS2.14) .  Then the teacher and the students say the target words/word groups 
and act them out together at the same time. Then the teacher says the words/word groups and acts them 
out. These activities can be done through the actions for the sub-themes  (D2.3, D2.5, V3.3, V10.1, V14.2, 
V15.2, V16.1). As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, sadly, angrily, etc. 
using different tones of voice  (SELS2.3, CS2.8, CS2.11).  They also practise for the target social language 
chunks using the same or similar techniques. During the repetitions, they point to relevant pictures that 
the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom  (CS2.12).  Some action sequences are also 
created in which the students can practise the social language in a fun way by repeating, pointing, miming, 
and acting out in several games  (SELS2.1, V7.2, LS5, LS6, LS9). The teacher facilitates some activities with 
dialogues and games in which students can practice the target pronunciation by selecting and using them 
accurately, naturally, and authentically  (CS3.1).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such 
as shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several 
sound drills  (SELS2.2).  The target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are 
practised through them  (CS2.13).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.5, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4).  
ENG6.3.R1
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS: The teacher facilitates reading and writing 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise 
techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the 
theme in various forms and amounts. Reading is done in two ways in the theme by using the written version 
of the introductory digital story and additional reading texts in reading sections of the instructional material 
to be used  (V3.2, LS2, LS4).  Various reading styles including silent reading, speed reading, jigsaw reading 
and basic reading techniques including skimming, scanning, and reading for details during pre-reading, 
while-reading and post-reading phases are used in the theme  (V3.4, LS1, CS2.3, CS2.6) . The ultimate aim 
of reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills and 
critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend and talk/write about the content in a meaningful and 
communicative way  (V3.3, V7.2, LS5, CS3.3). For the initial stage of reading, the teacher asks the students 
to look at the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) 
surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory story or a new text in the reading section of 

===== PDF_PAGE_614 =====
614
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the conceptual meanings they already have about 
the theme  (CS2.8).  At this stage, the teacher could ask the students to read the title of the theme and ask 
the students which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title  (SELS1.1, 
CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new words or the words they do not know. 
She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity by using the words they know and that there is time 
to work on the new words of the new theme later  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, CS2.10, CS2.12). 
ENG6.3.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING : Students go on with a scanning activity to find 
out the most important details of the introductory digital story and/or a new text in the reading section which 
is organised to help students to know more about the reading content  (CS2.6, CS2.7).  In this way they could 
be able to recognise the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or 
tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned  (quickly read) in the story  (CS2.4).  By doing so, they 
will be able to understand the story/text in general using the main elements  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, V3.4, LS1). 
ENG6.3.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Then the teacher asks the students to do a jigsaw reading activity, 
so she/he shows the written version of the introductory digital story or the text in the reading section on the 
blackboard/Smart Board  (or in any other teaching material).  She/He asks the students to work in pairs to 
share the text  (SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the text and the second peer reads the other half 
of the text in a given time  (CS2.6).  They are then asked to share what they have understood from their part 
with their peer, also in a given time. In this way, they talk about the whole story after reading it silently, in the 
jigsaw reading style  (D2.4, D3.6, V3.4, V4.2, V16.2, LS1, LS6,CS2.8, CS2.9) .  Some speed-reading activities 
can be used to develop students’ reading and comprehension skills. These activities can be evaluated as 
explained in the item  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After 
sharing their parts, students proceed with the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical 
chunks, and semantic meaning relatively with the help of the teacher  (CS2.14).  For dealing with the semantic 
meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, 
open- ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1).  From display to communicative open-ended, various 
types of questions are used to understand the meaning of the text  (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, CS2.6).  During this 
process students work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings  (D3.2, D3.7, V3.3, 
V7.2, V20.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 
ENG6.3.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process  (SELS1.3).  Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design  (D2.3, D3.5, V4.2, V6.2, 
V10.3, V12.1, LS1, LS6). 
ENG6.3.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY : At this stage, students remember what the 
theme is about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/ 
watching, and pre-reading sessions  (SELS1.1).  As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal with the 
main components and target vocabulary of the theme  (V3.2, LS1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_615 =====
615
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY : A scanning activity to find out the main details of the 
introductory digital story  (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help students to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some important pictures, words or events about the main components 
of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen 
and scanned  (quickly read) in the story. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general 
by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items  (D3.2, D3.6, LS1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then the students read the written version of the digital story again silently,  
(or the reading text in the reading section), to check whether they know any of the target vocabulary items 
about the theme  (V10.1, V14.2, V15.2, V16.1, CS2.8) . They underline the words whose meaning they do not 
know while reading silently   (CS2.17).  Students say these words when they finish reading and the teacher 
writes these words on the Smart Board/blackboard/ white board as they say them. The teacher writes 
only the target words on the Smart Board/blackboard as active words that the students have said. She/He 
quickly deals with the non-target passive vocabulary items by using pictures, mimics, gestures, imitations, 
examples, etc. But she/he takes time to facilitate the teaching of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.2, V3.3, 
V3.4, LS2, LS4 ,CS2.4, CS2.5, CS2.7). 
To introduce and practise the meanings of the target vocabulary related to the theme, that the students do 
not know, the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story  (or the video of the reading 
text if there is one) again. From the beginning, whenever a target item is mentioned, the teacher stops the 
video and asks several questions in the form of two options, one of which is a word from the previous themes 
that they already know  (V10.1, V14.2, V15.2, V16.1, CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what they are, the students 
hear the English equivalents of the words for the theme and they answer as a whole class in chorus. In this 
way, they are introduced to the meanings of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6,D3.7, CS2.10).  This is conducted in 
the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (SELS2.1)  (7),  (8), and  (9) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (V3.3, V3.4, V10.1, V14.2, V15.2, 
V16.1, LS1,LS2, LS4). After having watched the introductory digital story, the teacher shows some pictures 
for the sub-themes, on the walls as clues and says the words aloud several times in sentences by pointing 
to the pictures and the students repeat after her/him  (D2.3, V10.1,V14.2, V15.2, V16.1, CS2.6, CS2.11).  In this 
way, the main vocabulary items of the theme are introduced to the students in English as described in item  
(3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (V10.1, V14.2, V15.2, V16.1). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY : The teacher can prepare an activity using the Web 2.0 
programme with images/pictures, and symbolic images for some categories about the components of 
the theme “personal life”. She/He also prepares mixed images/pictures for target vocabulary items for the 
activities which can be done in relation to the components. She/He asks the students to look at the mixed 
pile of images/pictures of the main components of the theme on the Smart Board screen and scan them 
for a while to remember them  (V10.1, V14.2, V15.2, V16.1, CS2.4). She/He explains to the students that the 
items will be placed under the correct category, but first she/he gives the students the cut-out pictures of 
the activities and a large sheet of paper with the categories written on it and the cut-out pictures will be 
placed under each category correctly  (V3.3, L2, LS4, CS2.5) . The teacher asks them to work in pairs and 
place the cut-out pictures in the right category and ask each other some questions about the theme  (D3.2, 
D3.8,SELS2.2, V10.1, V14.2, V15.2, V16.1). When the students have finished working with the cut-out pictures 
and asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go 
to the Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures under the right category on the screen  
(SELS1.2, V3.4, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the main concept 
and its components are consolidated through categorisation. This activity can be done with real pictures on 
the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. The teacher asks the students to copy the words 
next to the pictures they have pasted or drawn in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange 
their picture dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling  (D3.2, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, 
V4.3, V6.2, LS9). To consolidate the meaning, selection, and use of the new target vocabulary items, the 
teacher could organise activities and tasks using pictures, flashcards, sounds, realia, and any other materials 

===== PDF_PAGE_616 =====
616
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
to play games such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, Wordscapes, Scrabble, Pictionary, 
Letter Scramble, Acronyms, Charades etc. Games could be adapted according to the teacher’s objectives  
(pronunciation, spelling, meaning, selection, use etc.), age, interests and language level of the students  
(CS2.13).  Students can be asked to create their own games to use the target vocabulary items in context  
(D2.5, D.3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V4.2, V4.4, V7.2, V10.1, V14.2, V15.2, V16.1, LS9, CS2.20).  Students’ learning 
can be checked as described in items  (3), and  (4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
ENG6.3.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS : To draw the students’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the them e “personal life”, the introductory digital story or an extract from it played so that the 
students can notice the target language chunks  (D3.2, CS2.2).  While watching the introductory digital story, 
the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the action by 
showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the students to do the same  (V3.2, LS2, CS2.14). She could 
hold up large pictures corresponding to the chunks when they are mentioned in the digital story to draw the 
students’ attention. The sentences with the target chunks are also written and placed on the Smart Board/
blackboard/ whiteboard. The teacher also points to these sentences while pointing to the scenes in the story 
where they appear. There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this stage. Students can 
automatically and naturally identify the use of the target language chunks in the current context created in 
the introductory digital story without working on any rules or structures  (SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, 
CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  To check the students’ identification of the target language chunks, after the students 
have finished watching the introductory digital story, the teacher asks them to read the sentences with the 
target language chunks written by the teacher on the Smart Board /blackboard/whiteboard and asks them 
to find the same or similar sentences in the written version of the introductory digital story or another text 
that is shown on the Smart Board  (D3.2, SELS3.2, V3.3). She/He also asks them to find the same or similar 
sentences with these chunks which are given in different types of tables prepared by the teacher  (CS2.7).  
These tables do not include any explanations of grammatical rules, explanations, or formulas, and they only 
contain example sentences with target chunks in which important words with the target grammar are written 
in bold or different colours to attract students’ attention. The teacher asks them to look at the words in bold 
or in different colours and asks students to examine them  (CS2.9).  Then the teacher asks the students 
to copy these sentences with target chunks written in bold or different colours into their notebooks. The 
teacher asks the students to make very similar sentences using the target words and asks them to share their 
sentences with each other in pairs, and then with the class  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, D3.2, V4.2, CS2.13,CS2.14, 
CS2.16.1, CS2.16.2). Both the teacher and the class members give feedback to the students as they say their 
sentences  (CS2.19).  The teacher gives all students a checklist with simple symbols to evaluate each other’s 
work as explained in the items  (5) and  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, LS6). 
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate students’ further practice with the target 
language chunks in the theme “personal life”, the teacher shows some other sentences with these chunks 
in another context such as a short story, a short paragraph, and a short dialogue etc. and asks students to 
find the sentences with the target chunks in them and asks if they understand them  (SELS3.2, V3.3, V10.1, 
V14.2,V15.2, V16.1, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.8).  She/He gives some written activities and exercises to practise the 
target chunks in context. She/He also facilitates more fun activities and as described in items  (5),  (8),  (9), 
and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. To consolidate the 
target language chunks, the teacher organises different fun activity and game bundles that the students can 
practise and consolidate them  (CS2.13) where their learning can be checked as described in item  (10) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (D2.5, V4.4). 

===== PDF_PAGE_617 =====
617
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.3.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION : Practising through writing: Writing activities 
help students  to  produce  and  display  meaningful  written  language  for  their  personal  expression  and 
communication with others, by using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and 
the social language in this theme, as in other themes  (V3.2, V10.1, V14.2, V15.2, V16.1). 
ENG6.3.W2.
RECOGNISING THE MODEL:  Initially, students produce very limited and short pieces of writing such as 
sentences to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “personal life”. They practise 
the language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat or simply explain what they hear 
and see in context and what they are asked to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy to be 
able to notice significant points and elements in it  (SELS3.1).  While copying a short model writing, they 
become aware of the aspects such as the use of words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on  
(D3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). 
ENG6.3.W3.
CREATING THE WRITING CONTENT: Controlled writing of words and sentences turns to short paragraphs in 
a process writing manner with the support of the teacher’s feedback in the theme. This process is expanded 
and supported by several practical activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/ 
pantomime/video stories, dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, 
etc. to practise further by writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (D1.3, D3.1, SELS3.2,V3.4, V4.4, V7.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG6.3.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
projects, scripts for plays, diaries/journals, blogs, very short film scenarios, etc. to express their ideas, 
thoughts, and feelings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be contextual, practical, 
authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests and language level  (V3.4, V7.2,V9.3, V12.1, LS1, 
LS4, LS9). 
ENG6.3.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students  interact  and  communicate 
with peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme in their writing  ( SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, 
V10.1, V14.2,V15.2, V16.1, LS9, CS2.20) . AI- based technologies can be used for various activities, giving 
students access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and 
at home in a variety of ways  (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3,V7.2, LS2, CS2.20). These activities are evaluated 
as described in items  (11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles  for  the  Implementation  of  the  English  
Curriculum.

===== PDF_PAGE_618 =====
618
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.3.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (D1.5, SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, 
LS1, LS6). 
ENG6.3.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING: The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from the 
first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance students’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language expressions of the theme  (V3.2, 
V3.4, V10.1, V14.2, V15.2, V16.1). 
ENG6.3.S2
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL: In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, students 
recognise how the language with the target language items is used  (CS2.6).  They practise the language in a 
controlled way, by telling, repeating, explaining what they hear and see in the context  (D1.3, D3.2, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.4). 
ENG6.3.S3
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT : In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues etc. as new opportunities for the students to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc  (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13). 
ENG6.3.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS:  Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products 
related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact 
with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V10.1,V14.2, 
V15.2, V16.1, CS2.20) . AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to 
authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, V7.2,LS2, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG6.3.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Students communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related 
to the theme “personal life” in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.3, CS2.20).  Picture strip 
stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision  (V3.4, V4.2, V12.1, 
LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and 
appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. Storification and gamification techniques are 
actively and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme. Students 

===== PDF_PAGE_619 =====
619
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, 
speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people in 
or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar in use, and the 
social language for the theme and its components such as “body parts, physical appearance and clothes; 
personality and character” (V3.4, V4.2, V10.1,V14.2, V15.2, V16.1, LS4, CS3.1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies 
can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They can also produce 
digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings   (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.3, V7.2, LS2, 
CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items  (7),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use and practise by 
communicating with others.
ENG6.3.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole speaking-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different activities for 
creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, LS1, LS6). 
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To practise comparing three or more things or people in English by using superlative and 
comparative forms of adjectives in an engaging, rotating activity.
Activity title: The Comparison Carousel
The teacher divides the class into small groups and sets up 3-4 stations around the classroom and explains 
the rules to students. Each station has a card with pictures or names of three or more items/people to 
compare (e.g., fruits, animals, countries, famous people, films). Example cards for comparison are as follows: 
Three Countries: “Türkiye, Canada, Mexico”, Three Foods: “Kebab, Burger, Tacos”, Three Animals: “Cat, Dog, 
Rabbit”. The students rotate between stations, where they compare three or more items or people using 
comparative and superlative forms. At each station, they discuss the differences and similarities between 
the items using comparative forms (e.g., “The lion is bigger than the tiger.”). They also use superlative forms 
for comparing within the group of three or more (e.g., “The giraffe is the tallest of all the animals.”). After 3-4 
minutes at one station, students rotate to the next station until they’ve compared all sets of three or more 
items. When the rotation of each group is completed, the students share their favourite comparisons with 
the class and the teacher provides feedback on the use of comparatives and superlatives. Students reflect 
on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To practise comparing three or more things or people in English by using superlative and 
comparative forms of adjectives in an engaging, rotating activity.
Activity title: The Comparison Carousel
The teacher divides the class into small groups and sets up 3-4 stations around the classroom and explains 
the rules to students. Each station has a card with pictures or names of three or more items/people to 
compare (e.g., fruits, animals, countries, famous people, or films). Example cards for comparison are as 
follows: Three Countries: “Türkiye, Canada, Mexico”, Three Foods: “Kebab, Burger, Tacos” Three Animals: 
“Cat, Dog, Rabbit”. The teacher provides students with a template with sentence structures (e.g., “X is taller 
than Y. Y is the tallest.”). They rotate between stations. At each station, they discuss the differences and 
similarities between the items and try to find the missing items/people on the template (e.g., “The lion is 
bigger than the tiger.”). They also use superlative forms for comparing within the group of three or more (e.g., 

===== PDF_PAGE_620 =====
620
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
“The giraffe is the tallest of all the animals.”). After 3-4 minutes at one station, students rotate to the next 
station until they’ve compared all sets of three or more items. When the rotation of each group is completed, 
the students share their favourite comparisons with the class and the teacher provides feedback on the use 
of comparatives and superlatives. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_621 =====
621
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 4: FAMILY LIFE
Sub-themes: family members’ jobs, working places, 
and job routines; different types of family homes and 
houses
This theme is centred on the concept of “family life” and covers the sub-
themes of “family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different 
types of family homes and houses”. These components (sub-themes) are 
integrated into the learning process through the contextualised use of target 
vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and social language 
expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, 
collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ 
developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this 
theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed 
to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school 
environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3.Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8.Questioning
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill     
     Values V1. Justice, V2. Family Integrity, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V12. Patience, V16. Responsibility, 
V20. Benevolence

===== PDF_PAGE_622 =====
622
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Physical Education and Sports, Visual Arts, 
Music, Information Technologies and Software
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering 
Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, 
CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. 
Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation 
Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, 
CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_623 =====
623
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 6 is structured based on semi-holistic/semi-inductive approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.6.4.L1.  Students can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “family life with family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different 
types of family homes and houses” carefully.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience related to the current theme 
and content by recalling their background knowledge imaginatively in her/his own language 
without speaking it.
b) Students identify significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge and 
experiences and the clues to the current content without translation.
c) Students make predictions about the current content on “family life” by using the relationships 
that they recognised accurately by looking at the provided realia, pictures, and context.
d) Students make predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/visual 
elements in relation to the current theme.
ENG.6.4.L2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “family life with family members’ 
jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family homes and houses” together 
through significant details and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Students comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole.
b) Students recognise the significant details and components within the whole current content 
by listening (to) and watching it again in a careful manner.
ENG.6.4.L3.  Students can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “family life with 
family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family homes and 
houses” through significant details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Students check any initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals surrounding the current 
content.
b) Students make important and necessary classifications in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
c) Students make important and necessary comparisons in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content with the help of classifications and comparisons made 
earlier.
e) Students make significant inferences that contribute to the understanding of the meaning of 
the generally perceived current content.
f) Students construct the meaning of the current content in detail through the classifications/
comparisons/inferences made earlier in relation to it.
g) Students internalise the current content in an individualised and appropriate way according to 
age and language level.
ENG.6.4.L4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully 
about the whole listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content 
on “family life with family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of 
family homes and houses”.
a) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content.

===== PDF_PAGE_624 =====
624
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content by sharing them with others.
ENG.6.4.P1.  Students can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“family life with family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family 
homes and houses” accurately, authentically, and naturally through spontaneous decision-
making processes and use it in an appropriate and effective way when communicating with 
others.
a) Students listen to the current content by paying attention to the target phonological aspects 
including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Students reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source 
several times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Students recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts.
d) Students recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they 
are heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Students use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.6.4.R1.  Students can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content 
on “family life with family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of 
family homes and houses”. 
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content efficiently.
b) Students recognise significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Students make significant preliminary predictions about the current content based on 
recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring the audio-visual 
clues surrounding it.
ENG.6.4.R2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “family life with family members’ 
jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family homes and houses” through 
skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Students review the current content by looking at the surrounding audio/visual materials to 
identify what it is about in general through skimming.
b) Students read the current content to scan the major components silently and quickly with the 
help of the clues provided. 
c) Students carefully read the current content silently and carefully to find significant details and 
components belonging to the theme.
ENG.6.4.R3.  Students can make meaning of / derive meaning from the current content about “family life 
with family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family homes 
and houses” by reading it carefully.
a) Students carefully check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial and detailed 
predictions that are made earlier. 
b) Students classify the significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.

===== PDF_PAGE_625 =====
625
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students compare significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships within the current 
content that contribute to the perception of the content in a meaningful way.
e) Students make meaningful inferences from the information in the current content by examining 
it carefully.
f) Students internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to age and language level.
ENG.6.4.R4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “family life with family members’ 
jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family homes and houses” in relation 
to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have 
been carefully examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process.
b) Students convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been carefully 
examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing 
them with others.
c) Students produce new products related to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities. 
ENG.6.4.V1.  Students can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “family life 
with family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family homes 
and houses” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately 
and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Students guess the main topic of the current content from the audio/visual/written elements 
(e.g. sound, voices, scenes, written words) in the contextual material by listening (to)/watching/
reading it several times for recognition.
b) Students recognise sub-themes/key components of the target words to which they belong in 
the current content by scanning.
c) Students recognise the target words related to the main components of the current content 
with the help of the audio/visual/written elements and other clues.
d) Students repeat aloud the relevant target key components and target vocabulary in the 
current content with the whole class, in groups, and then individually together with or after 
listening (to)/watching/reading the source material.
e) Students recognise the use of target words and expressions in the current content by making 
various guesses with the help of supplementary elements.
f) Students make context-appropriate selections automatically by associating target words 
with their pre-existing conceptual meanings in the mind without analysing their contextual 
meaning in detail. 
g) Students use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts by being aware of their differences when communicating with others.
ENG.6.4.G1.  Students can select and use the target grammatical elements of the current content about 
“family life with family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of 
family homes and houses” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it 
appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Students become familiar with the current content by listening (to)/watching/reading it a few 
times attentively.

===== PDF_PAGE_626 =====
626
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students listen (to)/watch/read the same content, attentively and mindfully, including the use 
of target grammatical chunks presented verbally in context with the help of body language.
c) Students verbally and automatically repeat simple and meaningful clauses/sentences 
containing target grammatical chunks that they have noticed in the current content that they 
have heard/viewed/read without explicit knowledge of the rules.
d) Students act out physically the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks 
in the current content heard/viewed/read by repeating them several times without knowing, 
analysing, and thinking about their rules.
e) Students see and read the example sentences containing target grammatical chunks provided 
for language awareness carefully.
f) Students gain awareness of clauses/sentences that contain target grammatical chunks that 
are presented for the purpose of raising language awareness.
g) Students recognise the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks when 
they encounter them by seeing and/or hearing them in different contexts.
h) Students use the recognised target grammatical chunks naturally, authentically, and 
automatically in new contextual tasks and activities without analysing their rules.
i) Students produce new and meaningful verbal/written content about the current theme by 
using the target grammatical chunks in meaningful tasks without knowing and analysing their 
rules.
j) Students use the target language chunks authentically, automatically, and naturally in 
communication processes without analysing their rules in meaningful contexts.
ENG.6.4.W1.  Students can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on 
“family life with family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of 
family homes and houses”.
a) Students relate their pre-existing knowledge and experience used in the initial processes of 
writing-expression skills to the current content by activating them in relation with the current 
content.
b) Students understand what the writing task and its content are in relation to the current 
content correctly by making use of their pre-existing knowledge and experience as guided and 
assigned.
ENG.6.4.W2.  Students can understand the model/example for the writing task about the current content 
on “family life with family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of 
family homes and houses”.
a) Students understand the components and details of the content in the provided model/sample 
which is displayed as a guide, by examining it carefully.
ENG.6.4.W3.  Students can organise a content for the assigned writing task on the current content “family 
life with family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family 
homes and houses” based on the model/example provided.
a) Students conduct preliminary research for a prepared writing situation according to the 
current content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
b) Students develop a simple draft for a prepared/or unprepared writing task about the current 
content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
c) Students organise and/or produce materials relevant to the content for a prepared/unprepared 
writing task, appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level. 
ENG.6.4.W4.  Students can individually construct/form content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “family life with family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different 
types of family homes and houses”.

===== PDF_PAGE_627 =====
627
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students present appropriate and accurate materials for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task about the current theme according to the assigned writing type, age, and language 
level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and rules relevant to the assigned writing 
type for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language chunks accurately and appropriately 
for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task about the current content by selecting them 
according to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
d) Students express important messages in the written current content to the reader accurately 
and appropriately for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
ENG.6.4.W5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information in the new written tasks about 
the “family life with family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of 
family homes and houses” to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information in the current content or similar information in a different content 
by internalising and selecting it individually and reorganising it as required and meaningfully in 
different contexts.
b) Students exchange information/ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge meaningfully with others.
ENG.6.4.W6.  Students can reflect on their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “family life with family members’ jobs, 
working places, and job routines; different types of family homes and houses” in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in 
relation to the current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in relation to the 
writing-expression process about the current content with others.
c) Students produce new written products related to the current writing-expression content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities.
ENG.6.4.S1.  Students can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “family 
life with family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family 
homes and houses”.
a) Students make connections with the current content by activating their pre-existing 
knowledge and experiences that they have recalled in the listening (to)/watching/reading 
sections previously.
ENG.6.4.S2.  Students can use the model/example for producing verbal content about the current content 
on “family life with family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of 
family homes and houses”.
a) Students listen (to)/watch/read the model/example for the current content with the help of 
audio/visual/written elements.
ENG.6.4.S3.  Students can organise a new verbal content on “family life with family members’ jobs, working 
places, and job routines; different types of family homes and houses” by speaking accurately, 
efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students recognise what form and type of content is expected and assigned for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations based on audio/visual/written content as provided in the 
model/example.
b) Students organise the content for prepared/unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate 
and accurate way as they have heard/seen/read in the model/example.

===== PDF_PAGE_628 =====
628
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students develop a draft for prepared/unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the age 
and language level as presented in the model/sample content.
d) Students organise supplementary audio/visual/written materials for prepared/or unprepared 
speaking situations, appropriate to age and language level, as provided in the model/sample 
content.
e) Students organise the information about the current content to be presented for prepared/or 
unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate way as required.
ENG.6.4.S4.  Students can construct a new verbal content on “family life with family members’ jobs, working 
places, and job routines; different types of family homes and houses” by speaking accurately, 
efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students use target pronunciation, vocabulary, language chunks, and forms of discourse 
related to the current content effectively by selecting them accurately and appropriately for 
prepared/unprepared speaking situations.
b) Students present individually prepared content in an accurate and efficient way as presented 
in the model/example for prepared speaking situations clearly, efficiently, and appropriately.
c) Students present individually prepared information in an accurate and efficient way as 
presented in the model/example for unprepared speaking situations.
d) Students express the message about the current content clearly to the reader by using all 
supplementary elements and body language in an appropriate and accurate way in context for 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.6.4.S5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information about the “family life with family 
members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family homes and houses” 
to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information presented in the current content by reorganising it appropriately, 
efficiently, individually, and verbally in different contexts.
b) Students engage in appropriate and efficient verbal communication by sharing the 
reconstructed meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.6.4.S6.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
speaking-expression process about the current content, “family life with family members’ 
jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family homes and houses” to 
communicate with other people in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or 
with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully in 
relation to the speaking-expression process about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_629 =====
629
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
FAMILY LIFE
Sub-themes: family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family homes and 
houses
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines: 
Nouns: An author, a boss, a businessman, a cook, a dentist, a designer, a detective, a director, an employee, 
an employer, a soldier, an assistant, a journalist, a lawyer, a manager, a painter, a pilot, a professor, a reporter, 
an engineer, an officer, a restaurant, a factory, a company, construction.
Verbs: To report, to employ, to earn, to farm.
Vocabulary for different types of family homes and houses: 
Nouns: Rest (remaining part), an address, an apartment, a bin, a blanket, bookshelf, a box, a carpet, a 
mirror, a clock, a cooker, a curtain, a drawer, an entrance, floor, furniture, heating, a key, a light, a pillow, a 
refrigerator, a roof, rubbish, a shelf, a sink, a towel, a chopping board, a youth room set.
Adjectives: Downstairs, upstairs, flat, strict, ambitious.
Adverbs: Double.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Present Progressive Tense for the future: (We are moving to a new apartment next week).
-The Simple Present Tense for the future: (The plane to London takes off at 9:15 tomorrow morning).
-Conjunctions (when, while): (The cook prepares the food when the guests arrive. I will wait for you outside 
while you are in the meeting). 
-Wh- questions (Which): (Which job does your cousin do? Which room is upstairs?) 
-Reflexive pronouns: (The reporter is introducing herself to the audience).
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Present Progressive Tense for the future: Talking about planned future events or arrangements.
-The Simple Present for the future: Expressing scheduled or regular events in the future.
-Conjunctions (when, while): Describing actions or events that happen at the same time or one after the 
other. 
-Wh questions (Which): Asking for specific information or making distinctions. 
-Reflexive pronouns: Emphasizing that the subject and object of an action are the same.
Target Social Language in Use:
Keep that secret in the family, please!
My father works all hours on his new job! 
Please make yourself at home!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
a, b, c, d, e, 
Vowels: a: (/ae/, /aeı/, /ə/, /a:/, /eɪ/,  /a:/, /a/,  /ɔː/, /eə/); e: (/e/; /i:/, /ə/)
Consonants: b: (/b/),  silent /b/); c:  (/si/, /k/);  d: (/d/)
*(Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme).

===== PDF_PAGE_630 =====
630
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “family life” and its components such as “family members’ jobs, working 
places, and job routines; different types of family homes and houses” is present in almost all languages. 
People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to 
their new language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what “family life” and 
its components such as “family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family 
homes and houses” means but will not know how to say them in a foreign language if this has not yet been 
covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them 
recognise, understand, and learn the new information more easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts
family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family homes and houses
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will write a short descriptive booklet about one of their family 
members, focusing on their job, workplace, and daily routine. They will also include details about the type of 
home this family member lives in, describing its features such as the number of rooms, outdoor spaces, or 
special areas. To make their work more engaging, students will draw a simple illustration of the home and 
explain how it supports their family member’s daily activities and routines. The assignment will be evaluated 
by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “family life” and its components such as “family members’ 
jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family homes and houses”. As they are lower 
secondary school students in year 6 (six), they can know what “family life” and its components such as “family 
members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family homes and houses” mean in their 
own language as it is known that almost all people who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing 
knowledge (in their own language) with them and transfer it to their new language learning context. However, 
they may not know how to say these things in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their 
existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own language can help them recognise, 
understand, and learn them more easily in a foreign language, in this case English.
As they are students in year 6 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “family 
life” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or years. These grammar 
items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning of the year, and they can 
be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current theme, so that the 
new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “family life” and its components such as “family members’ jobs, working places, and 
job routines; different types of family homes and houses”. Recalling and practising with relevant vocabulary 
and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as a basis for 
moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “family life”. Therefore, a dialogue game can 
be played to revise all vocabulary and language grammar items from the previous themes in previous years 
by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by 
seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to understand and use the previously learnt 
vocabulary and grammatical items to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what 
to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and 
grammatical items in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics throughout these 
practices).

===== PDF_PAGE_631 =====
631
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Establishing Links
Students can recall the current (theme) concept of “family life” and its components such as “family members’ 
jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family homes and houses” by remembering their 
pre-existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make 
links with the current activities in the current theme in English without translating anything until they start 
learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
various materials such as short scene from a film, series, a part from a story, a poster etc. which is appropriate 
to the age, level, and pedagogy could be used before the main teaching/learning flow of the class begins. 
They would give a general idea of the theme. Students are facilitated with the relevant materials through 
various activities.  When they have finished working on it, the teacher asks them in English if they understood 
what it was about. For checking their understanding, she/he can design several activities. For instance, they 
can write a related word that they know in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways can be tried.
The teacher asks them to wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the digital introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any 
further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme  “family life” in the classroom, to prepare the students emotionally, 
cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker 
to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being. This 
could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing 
a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote/a very short story, watching a 
pantomime/cartoon story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does not require 
any knowledge of English  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4). 
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills  (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection 
and use) are used in an integrated way around “family life” and sub-themes “family members’ jobs, working 
places, and job routines; different types of family homes and houses”, allowing students to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) 
with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG6.4.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: Having seen a visual about and having guessed 
the topic of “family life” during the background recall session, students can have a vision of the current theme 
as a general concept in the current  (new) theme  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, V2.2,V2.4, V2.3, LS1, LS4, CS2.11, 
CS2.16.2). So, a further concept check with listening/watching for gist activities including more guessing 
games using clues from some pictures, realia, short video clips etc. help them prepare for the current theme  
(CS2.6, CS2.8).  For each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as the main context of the theme, 

===== PDF_PAGE_632 =====
632
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
and it is visited several times while going through the theme to cover target pronunciation, vocabulary, 
grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole theme  (CS2.14).  It is both an 
entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. The teacher asks them whether 
their guesses during the background recall session were correct and also what they think the introductory 
digital story that they are going to watch could be about  (CS2.8).  As they have already seen a scene from 
a film about the theme and the pictures, realia, etc. they can easily answer what the current theme will be 
about and that their guesses were true  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.3,V3.4, V2.2, V2.4, V2.3, LS2, 
LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17). 
ENG6.4.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING: The teacher asks the students to 
watch the introductory digital story carefully, recalling the work done with visuals  (the scene from a film, 
pictures, realia, or video clips about the theme shown earlier)   (CS2.11) .  Students watch the introductory 
digital story to consolidate the identification of the “family life” in it as a whole  (CS2.13) without stopping the 
video at any point, so that the students can understand the theme holistically  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.3, V3.4, 
V2.2, V2.4, V2.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.14, CS2.16.2). 
ENG6.4.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw students’ attention to 
the content, some realia brought into the classroom by the teacher could be used  (V2.2, V2.4, V2.3).  The 
teacher could show the corresponding objects to the students when the corresponding vocabulary for the 
main components of the theme “family life” is mentioned in the introductory digital story, without stopping 
the video while the students watch the story  (CS2.6).  When they have watched the whole story, the teacher 
could show the realia items on the table and ask questions with two options  (CS2.5).  As one of the words is 
from the previous themes, students could hear, understand, recognise and learn the  (new) target vocabulary 
for each main component of the theme easily  (CS2.1).  In this way, the teacher could engage in a dialogue 
with the whole class to check that they have recognised the components of the theme, and that they have 
understood each realia item is about one component  (CS2.8).  Further activities and games can be played at 
this stage to reinforce the general meaning of the theme through its main components  (D1.1, D2.5, SELS2.1, 
V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4). 
To check whether the students understand the general topic of the theme “family life” and remember the 
sequence of the scenes of the introductory digital story, the teacher shows an organiser with the mixed 
images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the students to look at the images/pictures 
of the scenes for a while  (CS2.3).  She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs in their seats with 
the mixed paper pictures she/he has already given to the students  (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS4, LS6 ). 
When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for the scenes of the story, the teacher asks the students 
to take turns or volunteer to sort the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board  (or the pictures on the 
blackboard)  (SELS1.2, CS2.6, CS2.10) .  This will help the students to organise the story as a whole so that 
they can identify the main theme and the components of the theme from their memories  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, 
V16.3, V20.4, CS2.12). 
ENG6.4.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/ W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY : The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process   (SELS1.3, V3.4) . Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3,V12.1, 
LS5, LS6).  The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design  (V10.3). 

===== PDF_PAGE_633 =====
633
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.4.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION : To practise pronunciation of the new target words, word 
groups, language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “family life” and the words and/
or word groups for the sub-themes “family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types 
of family homes and houses”,the teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the whole or some extracts 
from the introductory digital story by noticing how words are pronounced  (V3.3, V2.2, V2.4, V2.3 , LS4, 
CS2.6).  She/He asks them to repeat the word aloud when she/he stops the video for a word and says it. 
The teacher then asks the students to listen and repeat the same words aloud a few times as a whole class 
after listening to the recordings that she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes  
(LS2, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as showing the picture of 
the target word to the students to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear 
the word from the recording, and then both  (CS2.8).  To help the students pronounce the words accurately, 
the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/him or the 
recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS1.2, 
SELS2.1, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, CS2.14). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Practice of pronunciation could be done with different 
forms of TPR, gamification and drama activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words/word groups
for the sub-themes “family members’ jobs, working places, and job routines; different types of family homes 
and houses”, the students listen  (CS2.9);  then the teacher says the target words/word groups and acts 
them out, the students repeat after her/him  (SELS2.1, CS2.14).  Then the teacher and the students say the 
target words/word groups and act them out together at the same time. Then the teacher says the words/
word groups and acts them out. These activities can be done through the actions for the sub-themes  (D2.3, 
D2.5, V3.3,V2.2, V2.4, V2.3).As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, sadly, 
angrily, etc. using different tones of voice  (SELS2.3, CS2.8, CS2.11).  They also practise for the target social 
language chunks using the same or similar techniques. During the repetitions, they point to relevant pictures 
that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom  (CS2.12).  Some action sequences are also 
created in which the students can practise the social language in a fun way by repeating, pointing, miming, 
and acting out in several games  (SELS2.1, V7.2, LS5, LS6, LS9). The teacher facilitates some activities with 
dialogues and games in which students can practice the target pronunciation by selecting and using them 
accurately, naturally, and authentically  (CS3.1).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such 
as shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several 
sound drills  (SELS2.2).  The target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are 
practised through them  (CS2.13).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, D2.5, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4).  
ENG6.4.R1
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS: The teacher facilitates reading and writing 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise 
techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the 
theme in various forms and amounts. Reading is done in two ways in the theme by using the written version 
of the introductory digital story and additional reading texts in reading sections of the instructional material 
to be used  (V3.2, LS2, LS4).  Various reading styles including silent reading, speed reading, jigsaw reading 
and basic reading techniques including skimming, scanning, and reading for details during pre-reading, 
while-reading and post-reading phases are used in the theme  (V3.4, LS1, CS2.3, CS2.6) . The ultimate aim 
of reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills and 
critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend and talk/write about the content in a meaningful and 
communicative way  (V3.3, V7.2, LS5, CS3.3). For the initial stage of reading, the teacher asks the students 
to look at the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) 

===== PDF_PAGE_634 =====
634
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory story or a new text in the reading section of 
the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the conceptual meanings they already have about 
the theme  (CS2.8).  At this stage, the teacher could ask the students to read the title of the theme and ask 
the students which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title  (SELS1.1, 
CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new words or the words they do not know. 
She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity by using the words they know and that there is time 
to work on the new words of the new theme later  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, CS2.10, CS2.12). 
ENG6.4.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING : Students go on with a scanning activity to find 
out the most important details of the introductory digital story and/or a new text in the reading section which 
is organised to help students to know more about the reading content  (CS2.6, CS2.7).  In this way they could 
be able to recognise the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or 
tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned  (quickly read) in the story  (CS2.4).  By doing so, they 
will be able to understand the story/text in general using the main elements  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, V3.4, LS1). 
ENG6.4.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Then the teacher asks the students to do a jigsaw reading activity, 
so she/he shows the written version of the introductory digital story or the text in the reading section on the 
blackboard/Smart Board  (or in any other teaching material).  She/He asks the students to work in pairs to 
share the text  (SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the text and the second peer reads the other half 
of the text in a given time  (CS2.6).  They are then asked to share what they have understood from their part 
with their peer, also in a given time. In this way, they talk about the whole story after reading it silently, in the 
jigsaw reading style  (D2.4, D3.6, V3.4, V4.2, V16.2, LS1, LS6,CS2.8, CS2.9) .  Some speed-reading activities 
can be used to develop students’ reading and comprehension skills. These activities can be evaluated as 
explained in the item  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After 
sharing their parts, students proceed with the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical 
chunks, and semantic meaning relatively with the help of the teacher  (CS2.14).  For dealing with the semantic 
meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, 
open- ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1).  From display to communicative open-ended, various 
types of questions are used to understand the meaning of the text  (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, CS2.6).  During this 
process students work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings  (D3.2, D3.7, V3.3, 
V7.2, V20.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 
ENG6.4.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process  (SELS1.3).  Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design  (D2.3, D3.5, V4.2, V6.2, 
V10.3, V12.1, LS1, LS6). 
ENG6.4.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY : At this stage, students remember what the 
theme is about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/ 
watching, and pre-reading sessions  (SELS1.1).  As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal with the 
main components and target vocabulary of the theme  (V3.2, LS1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_635 =====
635
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY : A scanning activity to find out the main details of the 
introductory digital story  (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help students to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some important pictures, words or events about the main components 
of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen 
and scanned  (quickly read) in the story. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general 
by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items  (D3.2, D3.6, LS1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then the students read the written version of the digital story again silently,  
(or the reading text in the reading section), to check whether they know any of the target vocabulary items 
about the theme  (V2.2, V2.4, V2.3, CS2.8). They underline the words whose meaning they do not know while 
reading silently  (CS2.17).  Students say these words when they finish reading and the teacher writes these 
words on the Smart Board/blackboard/ white board as they say them. The teacher writes only the target 
words on the Smart Board/blackboard as active words that the students have said. She/He quickly deals 
with the non-target passive vocabulary items by using pictures, mimics, gestures, imitations, examples, 
etc. But she/he takes time to facilitate the teaching of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.2, V3.3, V3.4, LS2, 
LS4,CS2.4, CS2.5, CS2.7). 
To introduce and practise the meanings of the target vocabulary related to the theme, that the students do 
not know, the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story  (or the video of the reading 
text if there is one) again. From the beginning, whenever a target item is mentioned, the teacher stops the 
video and asks several questions in the form of two options, one of which is a word from the previous themes 
that they already know  (V2.2, V2.4, V2.3 ,CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what they are, the students hear the 
English equivalents of the words for the theme and they answer as a whole class in chorus. In this way, they 
are introduced to the meanings of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6,D3.7, CS2.10).  This is conducted in the form 
of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (SELS2.1)  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (V3.3, V3.4, V16.3, LS1, LS2, LS4).  
After having watched the introductory digital story, the teacher shows some pictures for the sub-themes, 
on the walls as clues and says the words aloud several times in sentences by pointing to the pictures and the 
students repeat after her/him  (D2.3, V2.2, V2.4, V2.3, CS2.6, CS2.11).  In this way, the main vocabulary items 
of the theme are introduced to the students in English as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (V2.2, V2.4, V2.3). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY : The teacher can prepare an activity using the Web 2.0 
programme with images/pictures, and symbolic images for some categories about the components of the 
theme “family life”. She/He also prepares mixed images/pictures for target vocabulary items for the activities 
which can be done in relation to the components. She/He asks the students to look at the mixed pile of 
images/pictures of the main components of the theme on the Smart Board screen and scan them for a while 
to remember them  (V2.2, V2.4, V2.3 , CS2.4). She/He explains to the students that the items will be placed 
under the correct category, but first she/he gives the students the cut-out pictures of the activities and 
a large sheet of paper with the categories written on it and the cut-out pictures will be placed under each 
category correctly  (V3.3, L2, LS4, CS2.5) . The teacher asks them to work in pairs and place the cut-out 
pictures in the right category and ask each other some questions about the theme  (D3.2, D3.8, SELS2.2, 
V2.2, V2.4,V2.3).  When the students have finished working with the cut-out pictures and asking and 
answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart Board 
and drag the corresponding images/pictures under the right category on the screen  (SELS1.2, V3.4, V20.4, 
LS1, LS4, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the main concept and its components are 
consolidated through categorisation. This activity can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if 
there is a problem with technology. The teacher asks the students to copy the words next to the pictures 
they have pasted or drawn in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture 
dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling  (D3.2, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, 
LS9). To consolidate the meaning, selection, and use of the new target vocabulary items, the teacher could 
organise activities and tasks using pictures, flashcards, sounds, realia, and any other materials to play games 

===== PDF_PAGE_636 =====
636
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, Wordscapes, Scrabble, Pictionary, Letter Scramble, 
Acronyms, Charades etc. Games could be adapted according to the teacher’s objectives  (pronunciation, 
spelling, meaning, selection, use etc.), age, interests and language level of the students  (CS2.13).  Students 
can be asked to create their own games to use the target vocabulary items in context  (D2.5, D.3.3, SELS3.1, 
SELS3.2, V2.2, V2.3, V2.4, V4.2, V4.4, V7.2, LS9, CS2.20).  Students’ learning can be checked as described 
in items  (3), and  (4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG6.4.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS : To draw the students’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme “family life”, the introductory digital story or an extract from it played so that the 
students can notice the target language chunks  (D3.2, CS2.2).  While watching the introductory digital 
story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the 
action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the students to do the same  (V3.2, LS2, CS2.14). 
She/he could hold up large pictures corresponding to the chunks when they are mentioned in the digital 
story to draw the students’ attention. The sentences with the target chunks are also written and placed on 
the Smart Board/blackboard/ whiteboard. The teacher also points to these sentences while pointing to the 
scenes in the story where they appear. There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this 
stage. Students can automatically and naturally identify the use of the target language chunks in the current 
context created in the introductory digital story without working on any rules or structures  (SELS3.1, V3.4, 
LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  To check the students’ identification of the target language chunks, 
after the students have finished watching the introductory digital story, the teacher asks them to read 
the sentences with the target language chunks written by the teacher on the Smart Board /blackboard/
whiteboard and asks them to find the same or similar sentences in the written version of the introductory 
digital story or another text that is shown on the Smart Board  (D3.2, SELS3.2, V3.3). She/He also asks them 
to find the same or similar sentences with these chunks which are given in different types of tables prepared 
by the teacher  (CS2.7).  These tables do not include any explanations of grammatical rules, explanations, 
or formulas, and they only contain example sentences with target chunks in which important words with the 
target grammar are written in bold or different colours to attract students’ attention. The teacher asks them 
to look at the words in bold or in different colours and asks students to examine them  (CS2.9).  Then the 
teacher asks the students to copy these sentences with target chunks written in bold or different colours 
into their notebooks. The teacher asks the students to make very similar sentences using the target words 
and asks them to share their sentences with each other in pairs, and then with the class  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, 
D3.2, V4.2, CS2.13,CS2.14, CS2.16.1, CS2.16.2). Both the teacher and the class members give feedback to 
the students as they say their sentences   (CS2.19).  The teacher gives all students a checklist with simple 
symbols to evaluate each other’s work as explained in the items  (5) and  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, LS6). 
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate students’ further practice with the target 
language chunks in the theme “family life” the teacher shows some other sentences with these chunks in 
another context such as a short story, a short paragraph, and a short dialogue etc. and asks students to find 
the sentences with the target chunks in them and asks if they understand them  (SELS3.2, V3.3, V2.2,V2.3, 
V2.4, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.8).  She/He gives some written activities and exercises to practise the target chunks 
in context. She/He also facilitates more fun activities and as described in items  (5),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. To consolidate the target language 
chunks, the teacher organises different fun activity and game bundles that the students can practise and 
consolidate them  (CS2.13) where their learning can be checked as described in item  (10) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (D2.5, V4.4). 

===== PDF_PAGE_637 =====
637
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.4.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION : Practising through writing: Writing activities 
help students  to  produce  and  display  meaningful  written  language  for  their  personal  expression  and 
communication with others, by using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and 
the social language in this theme, as in other themes (V2.2, V2.3, V2.4, V3.2). 
ENG6.4.W2.
RECOGNISING THE MODEL:  Initially, students produce very limited and short pieces of writing such as 
sentences to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “family life”. They practise the 
language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat or simply explain what they hear and 
see in context and what they are asked to do. They are provided a written model/example to copy to be able 
to notice significant points and elements in it  (SELS3.1).  While copying a short model writing, they become 
aware of the aspects such as the use of words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling and so on  (D3.1, 
V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). 
ENG6.4.W3.
CREATING THE WRITING CONTENT: Controlled writing of words and sentences turns to short paragraphs in 
a process writing manner with the support of the teacher’s feedback in the theme. This process is expanded 
and supported by several practical activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/ 
pantomime/video stories, dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, 
etc. to practise further by writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (D1.3, D3.1, SELS3.2,V3.4, V4.4, V7.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG6.4.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
projects, scripts for plays, diaries/journals, blogs, very short film scenarios, etc. to express their ideas, 
thoughts, and feelings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be contextual, practical, 
authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests and language level  (V3.4, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, 
LS9). 
ENG6.4.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students  interact  and  communicate 
with peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme in their writing  (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2,V2.2, 
V2.3, V2.4, LS9, CS2.20). AI- based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to 
authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home in a variety 
of ways  (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3,V7.2, LS2, CS2.20). These activities are evaluated as described in items  
(11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles  for  the  Implementation  of  the  English  Curriculum.

===== PDF_PAGE_638 =====
638
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.4.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (D1.5, SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, 
LS1, LS6). 
ENG6.4.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING: The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from the 
first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance students’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language expressions of the theme (V3.2, 
V3.4, V2.2, V2.3, V2.4). 
ENG6.4.S2
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL: In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, students 
recognise how the language with the target language items is used  (CS2.6).  They practise the language in a 
controlled way, by telling, repeating, explaining what they hear and see in the context  (D1.3, D3.2, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.4). 
ENG6.4.S3
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT : In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues etc. as new opportunities for the students to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc  (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13). 
ENG6.4.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS:  Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products 
related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact 
with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme  (SELS2.2,SELS3.2, V4.2, V2.2, V2.3, 
V2.4, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings   
(D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, V7.2,LS2, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG6.4.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students communicate with each other 
by seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme “family life” in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.3, CS2.20).  Picture 
strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision  (V3.4, V4.2, V12.1, 
LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and 
appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. Storification and gamification techniques are 
actively and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the theme. Students 

===== PDF_PAGE_639 =====
639
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, 
speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people in 
or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar in use, and the 
social language for the theme and its components such as “family members’ jobs, working places, and job 
routines; different types of family homes and houses”  (V2.2, V2.3, V2.4, V3.4, V4.2, LS4, CS3.1, CS2.20) . 
AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. 
They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings  (D2.5, D3.3, 
SELS3.3, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items  (7),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use 
and practise by communicating with others.
ENG6.4.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole speaking-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different activities for 
creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, LS1, LS6). 
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To practise future arrangements in English through a creative and interactive speaking activity 
where students describe their future travel plans in detail.
Activity title: Future Travel Diaries
The teacher divides the class into pairs or small groups of 3-4 students and gives each group a set of Travel 
Destination Cards and Travel Activity Cards. The Travel Destination Cards have places like “İstanbul”, “Paris”, 
“Antalya”, “New York”, “Maldives”, “Rome”, “Tokyo”, etc. The Travel Activity Cards contain activities people 
can do while travelling (e.g., “attending a local festival”, “going on a city tour”, “trying new foods”, etc.). Each 
group selects a destination card and a travel activity card and forms their travel plan using a destination and 
activities they pick from the cards. For example: “We are flying to Paris next month. First, we are visiting 
the Eiffel Tower, and then we are eating at a famous French cafe”. Students take turns speaking about their 
future trip. For example: “Next summer, we are visiting the Maldives, and we are snorkelling with dolphins 
every morning”, “I am flying to Rome next month to visit my cousin. We are going on a historical tour of the 
Colosseum because I’m really interested in Roman history”.  The teacher encourages students to add as 
many details as possible to make the travel plan sound exciting, like when they are leaving, who they are 
traveling with, and how they feel about the trip. After 3-5 minutes, the groups switch to the next destination 
and activity, continuing to create new travel plans and speaking about their future plans. In pairs or groups, 
students can ask follow-up questions based on the plans their peers describe. For example: “Why are you 
visiting Rome?”, “What other activities are you doing in İstanbul?” After the activity, the teacher asks a few 
students or groups to share their travel plans with the class and writes their sentences on the board to 
emphasize correct use of the target grammar. She/He praises students for being creative and using detailed 
descriptions and encourages them to continue practising by imagining future trips or activities. Students 
reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.

===== PDF_PAGE_640 =====
640
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Supporting
Objective: To practise future arrangements in English through a creative and interactive speaking activity 
where students describe their future travel plans.                                                                                         
Activity Title: Future Travel Diaries
For the same activity, the teacher provides sentence starters or a template to help guide the students 
through their descriptions. For example: “I am going to _______ next _______.”, “We are visiting _______ and 
then _______.”, “I am meeting my friend at the airport, and we are _______.” Students reflect on their thoughts 
and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_641 =====
641
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 5: LIFE IN THE NEIGHBOURHOOD & CITY
Sub-themes: Festivals and events in the neighbourhood 
and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the 
city
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in the neighbourhood and the 
city” and covers the sub-themes of “festivals and events (sports, music, arts) 
in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and 
the city”. These components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning 
process through the contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical 
structures, phonological features, and social language expressions. The 
learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, 
and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ developmental 
level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to 
equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively 
use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8.Questioning
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill    
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V19. Patriotism, V20. 
Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_642 =====
642
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Physical Education and Sports, Visual Arts, 
Music, Information Technologies and Software
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering 
Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, 
CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. 
Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation 
Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, 
CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_643 =====
643
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 6 is structured based on semi-holistic/semi-inductive approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.6.5.L1.  Students can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “life in the neighbourhood and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) 
in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city” carefully.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience related to the current theme 
and content by recalling their background knowledge imaginatively in her/his own language 
without speaking it.
b) Students identify significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge and 
experiences and the clues to the current content without translation.
c) Students make predictions about the current content on “life in the neighbourhood and the 
city” by using the relationships that they recognised accurately by looking at the provided 
realia, pictures, and context.
d) Students make predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/visual 
elements in relation to the current theme.
ENG.6.5.L2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “life in the neighbourhood 
and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; 
transportation in the neighbourhood and the city” together through significant details and 
main components while listening/watching it.
a) Students comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole.
b) Students recognise the significant details and components within the whole current content 
by listening (to) and watching it again in a careful manner.
ENG.6.5.L3.  Students can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “life in the 
neighbourhood and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood 
and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city” through significant details by 
listening/watching it carefully.
a) Students check any initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals surrounding the current 
content.
b) Students make important and necessary classifications in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
c) Students make important and necessary comparisons in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content with the help of classifications and comparisons made 
earlier.
e) Students make significant inferences that contribute to the understanding of the meaning of 
the generally perceived current content.
f) Students construct the meaning of the current content in detail through the classifications/
comparisons/inferences made earlier in relation to it.
g) Students internalise the current content in an individualised and appropriate way according to 
age and language level.
ENG.6.5.L4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully 
about the whole listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content 
on “life in the neighbourhood and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the 
neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city”.

===== PDF_PAGE_644 =====
644
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content.
b) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content by sharing them with others.
ENG.6.5.P1.  Students can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“life in the neighbourhood and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the 
neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city” accurately, 
authentically, and naturally through spontaneous decision-making processes and use it in an 
appropriate and effective way when communicating with others.
a) Students listen to the current content by paying attention to the target phonological aspects 
including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Students reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source 
several times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Students recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts.
d) Students recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they 
are heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Students use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.6.5.R1.  Students can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content 
on “life in the neighbourhood and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the 
neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city”. 
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content efficiently.
b) Students recognise significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Students make significant preliminary predictions about the current content based on 
recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring the audio-visual 
clues surrounding it.
ENG.6.5.R2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “life in the neighbourhood 
and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; 
transportation in the neighbourhood and the city” through skimming (looking quickly at) the 
audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Students review the current content by looking at the surrounding audio/visual materials to 
identify what it is about in general through skimming.
b) Students read the current content to scan the major components silently and quickly with the 
help of the clues provided. 
c) Students carefully read the current content silently and carefully to find significant details and 
components belonging to the theme.
ENG.6.5.R3.  Students can make meaning of / derive meaning from the current content about “life in the 
neighbourhood and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood 
and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city” by reading it carefully.

===== PDF_PAGE_645 =====
645
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students carefully check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial and detailed 
predictions that are made earlier. 
b) Students classify the significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
c) Students compare significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships within the current 
content that contribute to the perception of the content in a meaningful way.
e) Students make meaningful inferences from the information in the current content by 
examining it carefully.
f) Students internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to age and language level.
ENG.6.5.R4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “life in the neighbourhood 
and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; 
transportation in the neighbourhood and the city” in relation to themselves or others, both 
individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have 
been carefully examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process.
b) Students convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been carefully 
examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing 
them with others.
c) Students produce new products related to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities. 
ENG.6.5.V1.  Students can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “life in the 
neighbourhood and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood 
and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city” accurately, authentically, 
spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating 
with others.
a) Students guess the main topic of the current content from the audio/visual/written elements 
(e.g. sound, voices, scenes, written words) in the contextual material by listening (to)/watching/
reading it several times for recognition.
b) Students recognise sub-themes/key components of the target words to which they belong in 
the current content by scanning.
c) Students recognise the target words related to the main components of the current content 
with the help of the audio/visual/written elements and other clues.
d) Students repeat aloud the relevant target key components and target vocabulary in the 
current content with the whole class, in groups, and then individually together with or after 
listening (to)/watching/reading the source material.
e) Students recognise the use of target words and expressions in the current content by making 
various guesses with the help of supplementary elements.
f) Students make context-appropriate selections automatically by associating target words 
with their pre-existing conceptual meanings in the mind without analysing their contextual 
meaning in detail. 
g) Students use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts by being aware of their differences when communicating with others. 

===== PDF_PAGE_646 =====
646
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.6.5.G1.  Students can select and use the target grammatical elements of the current content about 
“life in the neighbourhood and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the 
neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city” accurately, 
authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when 
communicating with others.
a) Students become familiar with the current content by listening (to)/watching/reading it a few 
times attentively.
b) Students listen (to)/watch/read the same content, attentively and mindfully, including the use 
of target grammatical chunks presented verbally in context with the help of body language.
c) Students verbally and automatically repeat simple and meaningful clauses/sentences 
containing target grammatical chunks that they have noticed in the current content that they 
have heard/viewed/read without explicit knowledge of the rules.
d) Students act out physically the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks 
in the current content heard/viewed/read by repeating them several times without knowing, 
analysing, and thinking about their rules.
e) Students see and read the example sentences containing target grammatical chunks provided 
for language awareness carefully.
f) Students gain awareness of clauses/sentences that contain target grammatical chunks that 
are presented for the purpose of raising language awareness.
g) Students recognise the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks when 
they encounter them by seeing and/or hearing them in different contexts.
h) Students use the recognised target grammatical chunks naturally, authentically, and 
automatically in new contextual tasks and activities without analysing their rules.
i) Students produce new and meaningful verbal/written content about the current theme by 
using the target grammatical chunks in meaningful tasks without knowing and analysing their 
rules.
j) Students use the target language chunks authentically, automatically, and naturally in 
communication processes without analysing their rules in meaningful contexts.
ENG.6.5.W1.  Students can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on 
“life in the neighbourhood and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the 
neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city”.
a) Students relate their pre-existing knowledge and experience used in the initial processes of 
writing-expression skills to the current content by activating them in relation with the current 
content.
b) Students understand what the writing task and its content are in relation to the current 
content correctly by making use of their pre-existing knowledge and experience as guided and 
assigned.
ENG.6.5.W2.  Students can understand the model/example for the writing task about the current content 
on “life in the neighbourhood and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the 
neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city”.
a) Students understand the components and details of the content in the provided model/
sample which is displayed as a guide, by examining it carefully.
ENG.6.5.W3.  Students can organise a content for the assigned writing task on the current content “life 
in the neighbourhood and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the 
neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city” based on the 
model/example provided.

===== PDF_PAGE_647 =====
647
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students conduct preliminary research for a prepared writing situation according to the 
current content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
b) Students develop a simple draft for a prepared/or unprepared writing task about the current 
content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
c) Students organise and/or produce materials relevant to the content for a prepared/
unprepared writing task, appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level. 
ENG.6.5.W4.  Students can individually construct/form content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “life in the neighbourhood and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) 
in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city”.
a) Students present appropriate and accurate materials for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task about the current theme according to the assigned writing type, age, and language 
level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and rules relevant to the assigned writing 
type for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language chunks accurately and appropriately 
for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task about the current content by selecting them 
according to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
d) Students express important messages in the written current content to the reader accurately 
and appropriately for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
ENG.6.5.W5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information in the new written tasks about the 
“life in the neighbourhood and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the 
neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city” to communicate 
with other people.
a) Students use the information in the current content or similar information in a different content 
by internalising and selecting it individually and reorganising it as required and meaningfully in 
different contexts.
b) Students exchange information/ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge meaningfully with others.
ENG.6.5.W6.  Students can reflect on their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “life in the neighbourhood and the city 
with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; transportation 
in the neighbourhood and the city” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/
or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in 
relation to the current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in relation to the 
writing-expression process about the current content with others.
c) Students produce new written products related to the current writing-expression content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities.
ENG.6.5.S1.  Students can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on 
“life in the neighbourhood and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the 
neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city”.
a) Students make connections with the current content by activating their pre-existing 
knowledge and experiences that they have recalled in the listening (to)/watching/reading 
sections previously.

===== PDF_PAGE_648 =====
648
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.6.5.S2.  Students can use the model/example for producing verbal content about the current content 
on “life in the neighbourhood and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the 
neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city”.
a) Students listen (to)/watch/read the model/example for the current content with the help of 
audio/visual/written elements.
ENG.6.5.S3.  Students can organise a new verbal content on “life in the neighbourhood and the city with 
festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in the 
neighbourhood and the city” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students recognise what form and type of content is expected and assigned for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations based on audio/visual/written content as provided in the 
model/example.
b) Students organise the content for prepared/unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate 
and accurate way as they have heard/seen/read in the model/example.
c) Students develop a draft for prepared/unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the 
age and language level as presented in the model/sample content.
d) Students organise supplementary audio/visual/written materials for prepared/or unprepared 
speaking situations, appropriate to age and language level, as provided in the model/sample 
content.
e) Students organise the information about the current content to be presented for prepared/or 
unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate way as required.
ENG.6.5.S4.  Students can construct a new verbal content on “life in the neighbourhood and the city with 
festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in the 
neighbourhood and the city” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students use target pronunciation, vocabulary, language chunks, and forms of discourse 
related to the current content effectively by selecting them accurately and appropriately for 
prepared/unprepared speaking situations.
b) Students present individually prepared content in an accurate and efficient way as presented 
in the model/example for prepared speaking situations clearly, efficiently, and appropriately.
c) Students present individually prepared information in an accurate and efficient way as 
presented in the model/example for unprepared speaking situations.
d) Students express the message about the current content clearly to the reader by using all 
supplementary elements and body language in an appropriate and accurate way in context for 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.6.5.S5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information about the “life in the neighbourhood 
and the city with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; 
transportation in the neighbourhood and the city” to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information presented in the current content by reorganising it appropriately, 
efficiently, individually, and verbally in different contexts.
b) Students engage in appropriate and efficient verbal communication by sharing the 
reconstructed meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.6.5.S6.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
speaking-expression process about the current content, “life in the neighbourhood and the city 
with festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in 
the neighbourhood and the city” to communicate with other people in relation to themselves 
or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_649 =====
649
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully in 
relation to the speaking-expression process about the current content with others.
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN THE NEIGHBOURHOOD AND CITY
Sub-themes: festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in the 
neighbourhood and the city
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for festivals and events in the neighbourhood and city: 
Nouns: A festival, an audience, a musician, a platform, a wedding, jazz, pop, rock, rap.
Verbs: To celebrate, to perform, to raise (money), to organise, to practice, to ride, to skate.   
Adjectives: Pleased, social, tired, creative, local.
Adverbs: Any, better, best.
Vocabulary for transportation in the neighbourhood and city: 
Nouns: Means of transport, parking, driving, a sign, a direction, a vehicle, a railway, a link, a tube, underground 
(official name of tube in Britain) (subway-AmE.), a drive, a ride, a van, a ship, a lorry (truck-AmE.), a motorcycle, 
a wheel, gas, petrol, an overpass, an underpass, tram (trolley-AmE.).
Verbs: To catch, to cross, to ride, to link, to count someone in, to hang on, to rush.   
Adjectives: Pleased, crowded, social, tired, creative, local.
Phrases: Public transport.
Adverbs: Along, straight, past, slowly.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Simple Past Tense (was-were): (The train was late yesterday because of the rain. The guests were 
pleased with the meals).
-Wh- questions (why, when): (What did they celebrate last night? When did the lorry cross the overpass?)
-Gerunds and infinitives: (I enjoy listening to rock music at festivals. We planned to raise money for the jazz 
performers).
-Question tags for the Simple Past Tense (to be): (The festival was amazing, wasn’t it? There weren’t many 
people at the wedding, were there?)
-Prepositions (prepositions of place: at, in, on, in front of, under, behind, among, beside, near, next to, 
between, across, into, through, onto, out of. Prepositions of time: on, in, for, at; Prepositions of phrases: on 
foot, by car): (The truck stopped near the railway crossing. The audience sat on the grass during the concert. 
The jazz concert started at 7 p.m. last night. He travelled to the city park by car with his family. She walked 
across the road to catch the bAmE.).
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “ 29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of the Simple Past Tense (was-were): Describing past events, states, or conditions.
-Use of Wh questions (why, when): Asking for reasons or time-related information about events, actions, or 
situations.

===== PDF_PAGE_650 =====
650
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
-Use of Gerunds and infinitives: Talking about likes, dislikes, plans, and actions.
-Use of Question tags for past tense (to be): Confirming or seeking agreement about past events or states.
-Use of Prepositions (prepositions of place: at, in, on, in front of, under, behind, among, beside, near, next to, 
between, across, into, through, onto, out of and prepositions of time: on, in, for, at; prepositions of phrases: 
on foot, by car): Describing the location and time of objects, people, or events.
Target Social Language in Use:
The music festival is the talk of the town!
We were stuck in a traffic jam on the way to the concert!
Can I get a lift to the station?
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Vowel: i: (/aı/, /ı/, /i:/)
Consonants:   f:  (/f/);  g: (/g/, /dʒ/);  h: (/h/); j: (/dʒeɪ/, /dʒ/);  k: (/k/)
*(Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme.)
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “life in the neighbourhood and the city” and its components such as “festivals 
and events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the 
city” is present in almost all languages. People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing 
knowledge with them and transfer it to their new language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school 
student will know what “life in the neighbourhood and the city” and its components such as “festivals and 
events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city” 
means but will not know how to say them in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing 
curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, 
and learn the new information more easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts
festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood 
and the city
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will create a poster or a short presentation about a festival or event 
in their neighbourhood or city and explain how people can travel to this event using different transportation 
options. Students will include details about the festival or event, such as its name, type (sports, music, 
arts), time, and location. They will describe at least two transportation methods available, explaining which 
one is better for the event and why. Students will also add pictures or drawings to make their work visually 
appealing and informative. The assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or 
a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “life in the neighbourhood and the city” and its components 
such as “festivals and events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in the 
neighbourhood and the city”. As they are lower secondary school students in year 6 (six), they can know what 
“life in the neighbourhood and the city” and its components such as “festivals and events (sports, music, arts) 
in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city”  mean in their own language 
as it is known that almost all people who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge 
(in their own language) with them and transfer it to their new language learning context. However, they may 
not know how to say these things in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing 
curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own language can help them recognise, understand, 

===== PDF_PAGE_651 =====
651
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
and learn them more easily in a foreign language, in this case English.
As they are students in year 6 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “life in 
the neighbourhood and the city” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes 
and/or years. These grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the 
beginning of the year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical 
items in the current theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “life in the neighbourhood and the city” and its components such as “festivals and 
events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city”. 
Recalling and practising with relevant vocabulary and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in 
the previous years would be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept 
of “life in the neighbourhood and the city”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary 
and language grammar items from the previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in English as 
a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember 
and how much they are able to understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and grammatical items 
to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to 
revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current 
theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students can recall the current (theme) concept of “life in the neighbourhood and the city” and its components 
such as “festivals and events in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city” 
by remembering their pre-existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their 
own language to make links with the current activities in the current theme in English without translating 
anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
various materials such as short scene from a film, series, a part from a story, a poster etc. which is appropriate 
to the age, level, and pedagogy could be used before the main teaching/learning flow of the class begins. 
They would give a general idea of the theme. Students are facilitated with the relevant materials through 
various activities.  When they have finished working on it, the teacher asks them in English if they understood 
what it was about. For checking their understanding, she/he can design several activities. For instance, they 
can write a related word that they know in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways can be tried.
The teacher asks them to wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the digital introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any 
further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme “life in the neighbourhood and the city” in the classroom, to prepare the 
students emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be 
done as an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for 
their well-being. This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/
chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote/a very short 
story, watching a pantomime/cartoon story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and 
does not require any knowledge of English  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4). 
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills  (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around “life in the neighbourhood and the city” and sub-themes “festivals 

===== PDF_PAGE_652 =====
652
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
and events  (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and 
the city” , allowing students to build background knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to 
productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are 
integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive 
to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely linked way that means 
each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development and to increase communicative 
competence. The theme is characterised by a balanced integration of all the skills, where students engage 
with input  (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) and respond through output  
(speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological 
selection and use skills.
ENG6.5.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: Having seen a visual about and having guessed 
the topic of “life in the neighbourhood and the city” during the background recall session, students can 
have a vision of the current theme as a general concept in the current  (new) theme  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, 
V10.3, V14.3, V16.2, LS1, LS4, CS2.11, CS2.16.2). So, a further concept check with listening/watching for gist 
activities including more guessing games using clues from some pictures, realia, short video clips etc. help 
them prepare for the current theme  (CS2.6, CS2.8).  For each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as 
the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through the theme to cover target 
pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole 
theme  (CS2.14).  It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. The 
teacher asks them whether their guesses during the background recall session were correct and also what 
they think the introductory digital story that they are going to watch could be about  (CS2.8).  As they have 
already seen a scene from a film about the theme and the pictures, realia, etc. they can easily answer what 
the current theme will be about and that their guesses were true  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2,SELS1.2, V3.3, V3.4, 
V10.3, V14.3, V16.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17). 
ENG6.5.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING: The teacher asks the students to 
watch the introductory digital story carefully, recalling the work done with visuals  (the scene from a film, 
pictures, realia, or video clips about the theme shown earlier)   (CS2.11) .  Students watch the introductory 
digital story to consolidate the identification of the “life in the neighbourhood and the city”  in it as a whole  
(CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that the students can understand the theme holistically  
(D3.2,SELS1.1, V3.3, V3.4, V10.3, V14.3, V16.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.14, CS2.16.2). 
ENG6.5.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw students’ attention to the 
content, some realia brought into the classroom by the teacher could be used  (V10.3, V14.3, V16.2) .  The 
teacher could show the corresponding objects to the students when the corresponding vocabulary for the 
main components of the theme “life in the neighbourhood and the city” is mentioned in the introductory digital 
story, without stopping the video while the students watch the story  (CS2.6) .  When they have watched 
the whole story, the teacher could show the realia items on the table and ask questions with two options  
(CS2.5).  As one of the words is from the previous themes, students could hear, understand, recognise and 
learn the  (new) target vocabulary for each main component of the theme easily  (CS2.1).  In this way, the 
teacher could engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the components 
of the theme, and that they have understood each realia item is about one component  (CS2.8).  Further 
activities and games can be played at this stage to reinforce the general meaning of the theme through its 
main components  (D1.1, D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4). 

===== PDF_PAGE_653 =====
653
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
To check whether the students understand the general topic of the theme “life in the neighbourhood and 
the city” and remember the sequence of the scenes of the introductory digital story, the teacher shows an 
organiser with the mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the students to look at 
the images/pictures of the scenes for a while  (CS2.3).  She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs 
in their seats with the mixed paper pictures she/he has already given to the students  (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, 
LS1, LS4, LS6) . When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for the scenes of the story, the teacher 
asks the students to take turns or volunteer to sort the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board  (or the 
pictures on the blackboard)  (SELS1.2, CS2.6, CS2.10) .  This will help the students to organise the story as 
a whole so that they can identify the main theme and the components of the theme from their memories  
(D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, V16.3, V20.4, CS2.12). 
ENG6.5.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/ W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY : The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process   (SELS1.3, V3.4) . Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3,V12.1, 
LS5, LS6).  The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design  (V10.3). 
ENG6.5.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION : To practise pronunciation of the new target words, word 
groups, language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “life in the neighbourhood and 
the city” and the words and/or word groups for the sub-themes “festivals and events  (sports, music, arts) 
in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city”  , the teacher asks the 
students to listen  (to)/watch the whole or some extracts from the introductory digital story by noticing how 
words are pronounced  (V3.3, V10.3, V14.3, V16.2, LS4, CS2.6). She/He asks them to repeat the word aloud 
when she/he stops the video for a word and says it. The teacher then asks the students to listen and repeat 
the same words aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to the recordings that she/he has prepared 
beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes  (LS2, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer variations with some 
techniques such as showing the picture of the target word to the students to say the word or pointing to 
the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the recording, and then both  (CS2.8).  To help the 
students pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few 
times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then 
again as volunteers  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, CS2.14). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Practice of pronunciation could be done with different 
forms of TPR, gamification and drama activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words/word groups
for the sub-themes “festivals and events  (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; transportation 
in the neighbourhood and the city” , the students listen  (CS2.9); then the teacher says the target words/
word groups and acts them out, the students repeat after her/him  (SELS2.1, CS2.14 ).  Then the teacher 
and the students say the target words/word groups and act them out together at the same time. Then the 
teacher says the words/word groups and acts them out. These activities can be done through the actions for 
the sub-themes  (D2.3, D2.5, V3.3, V10.3, V14.3, V16.2) . As a variation, they can also repeat the words after 
the teacher happily, sadly, angrily, etc. using different tones of voice  (SELS2.3, CS2.8, CS2.11).  They also 
practise for the target social language chunks using the same or similar techniques. During the repetitions, 
they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom  (CS2.12).  
Some action sequences are also created in which the students can practise the social language in a fun way 
by repeating, pointing, miming, and acting out in several games  (SELS2.1, V7.2, LS5, LS6, LS9). The teacher 

===== PDF_PAGE_654 =====
654
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
facilitates some activities with dialogues and games in which students can practice the target pronunciation 
by selecting and using them accurately, naturally, and authentically  (CS3.1).  Several fun pronunciation 
games could be played, such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, 
rhyming games, and several sound drills  (SELS2.2).  The target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and 
diphthongs of the theme are practised through them  (CS2.13).  Their learning is evaluated as described in 
items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (D1.2, D1.6, 
D2.5, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4).  
ENG6.5.R1
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS: The teacher facilitates reading and writing 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise 
techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the 
theme in various forms and amounts. Reading is done in two ways in the theme by using the written version 
of the introductory digital story and additional reading texts in reading sections of the instructional material 
to be used  (V3.2, LS2, LS4) .  Various reading styles including silent reading, speed reading, jigsaw reading 
and basic reading techniques including skimming, scanning, and reading for details during pre-reading, 
while-reading and post-reading phases are used in the theme   (V3.4, LS1, CS2.3, CS2.6) . The ultimate aim 
of reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills and 
critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend and talk/write about the content in a meaningful and 
communicative way  (V3.3, V7.2, LS5, CS3.3). For the initial stage of reading, the teacher asks the students 
to look at the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) 
surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory story or a new text in the reading section of 
the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the conceptual meanings they already have about 
the theme  (CS2.8).  At this stage, the teacher could ask the students to read the title of the theme and ask 
the students which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title  (SELS1.1, 
CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new words or the words they do not know. 
She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity by using the words they know and that there is time 
to work on the new words of the new theme later  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, CS2.10, CS2.12). 
ENG6.5.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING : Students go on with a scanning activity to find 
out the most important details of the introductory digital story and/or a new text in the reading section which 
is organised to help students to know more about the reading content  (CS2.6, CS2.7).  In this way they could 
be able to recognise the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or 
tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned  (quickly read) in the story  (CS2.4).  By doing so, they 
will be able to understand the story/text in general using the main elements  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, V3.4, LS1). 
ENG6.5.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Then the teacher asks the students to do a jigsaw reading activity, 
so she/he shows the written version of the introductory digital story or the text in the reading section on the 
blackboard/Smart Board  (or in any other teaching material).  She/He asks the students to work in pairs to 
share the text  (SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the text and the second peer reads the other half 
of the text in a given time  (CS2.6).  They are then asked to share what they have understood from their part 
with their peer, also in a given time. In this way, they talk about the whole story after reading it silently, in the 
jigsaw reading style  (D2.4, D3.6, V3.4, V4.2, V16.2, LS1, LS6,CS2.8, CS2.9) .  Some speed-reading activities 
can be used to develop students’ reading and comprehension skills. These activities can be evaluated as 
explained in the item  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After 
sharing their parts, students proceed with the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical 

===== PDF_PAGE_655 =====
655
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
chunks, and semantic meaning relatively with the help of the teacher  (CS2.14).  For dealing with the semantic 
meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, 
open- ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1).  From display to communicative open-ended, various 
types of questions are used to understand the meaning of the text  (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, CS2.6).  During this 
process students work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings  (D3.2, D3.7, V3.3, 
V7.2, V20.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 
ENG6.5.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process  (SELS1.3).  Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive   (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates 
different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design   (D 2.3, D3.5, 
V4.2, V6.2, V10.3, V12.1, LS1, LS6). 
ENG6.5.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY : At this stage, students remember what the 
theme is about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/ 
watching, and pre-reading sessions  (SELS1.1).  As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal with the 
main components and target vocabulary of the theme  (V3.2, LS1). 
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY : A scanning activity to find out the main details of the 
introductory digital story  (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help students to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some important pictures, words or events about the main components 
of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen 
and scanned  (quickly read) in the story. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general 
by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items  (D3.2, D3.6, LS1, 
LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then the students read the written version of the digital story again 
silently,  (or the reading text in the reading section), to check whether they know any of the target vocabulary 
items about the theme  (V10.3, V14.3, V16.2, CS2.8) . They underline the words whose meaning they do not 
know while reading silently   (CS2.17).  Students say these words when they finish reading and the teacher 
writes these words on the Smart Board/blackboard/ white board as they say them. The teacher writes 
only the target words on the Smart Board/blackboard as active words that the students have said. She/He 
quickly deals with the non-target passive vocabulary items by using pictures, mimics, gestures, imitations, 
examples, etc. But she/he takes time to facilitate the teaching of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.2, V3.3, 
V3.4, LS2, LS4,CS2.4, CS2.5, CS2.7). 
To introduce and practise the meanings of the target vocabulary related to the theme, that the students do 
not know, the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story  (or the video of the reading 
text if there is one) again. From the beginning, whenever a target item is mentioned, the teacher stops the 
video and asks several questions in the form of two options, one of which is a word from the previous themes 
that they already know   (V10.3, V14.3, V16.2, CS2.16.1, CS2.6).  By guessing what they are, the students hear 
the English equivalents of the words for the theme and they answer as a whole class in chorus. In this way, 
they are introduced to the meanings of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6,D3.7, CS2.10).  This is conducted in the 
form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (SELS2.1)  (7),  (8), and  (9) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V3.3, V3.4, V10.3, V14.3, V16.2, 
LS1, LS2, LS4).  After having watched the introductory digital story, the teacher shows some pictures for the 
sub-themes, on the walls as clues and says the words aloud several times in sentences by pointing to the 

===== PDF_PAGE_656 =====
656
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
pictures and the students repeat after her/him  (D2.3, V10.3, V14.3, V16.2, CS2.6, CS2.11).  In this way, the 
main vocabulary items of the theme are introduced to the students in English as described in item  (3) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (V10.3, V14.3, V16.2). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY : The teacher can prepare an activity using the Web 2.0 
programme with images/pictures, and symbolic images for some categories about the components of 
the theme “life in the neighbourhood and the city” . She/He also prepares mixed images/pictures for target 
vocabulary items for the activities which can be done in relation to the components. She/He asks the 
students to look at the mixed pile of images/pictures of the main components of the theme on the Smart 
Board screen and scan them for a while to remember them  (V10.3, V14.3, V16.2, CS2.4). She/He explains 
to the students that the items will be placed under the correct category, but first she/he gives the students 
the cut-out pictures of the activities and a large sheet of paper with the categories written on it and the cut-
out pictures will be placed under each category correctly  (V3.3, L2, LS4, CS2.5). The teacher asks them to 
work in pairs and place the cut-out pictures in the right category and ask each other some questions about 
the theme  (D3.2, D3.8, SELS2.2, V10.3, V14.3,V16.2). When the students have finished working with the 
cut-out pictures and asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or 
volunteer to go to the Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures under the right category 
on the screen  (SELS1.2, V3.4, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the 
main concept and its components are consolidated through categorisation. This activity can be done with 
real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. The teacher asks the students 
to copy the words next to the pictures they have pasted or drawn in their picture dictionaries and then asks 
them to exchange their picture dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling  (D3.2, SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS9). To consolidate the meaning, selection, and use of the new target vocabulary 
items, the teacher could organise activities and tasks using pictures, flashcards, sounds, realia, and any 
other materials to play games such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, Wordscapes, Scrabble, 
Pictionary, Letter Scramble, Acronyms, Charades etc. Games could be adapted according to the teacher’s 
objectives  (pronunciation, spelling, meaning, selection, use etc.), age, interests and language level of the 
students  (CS2.13).  Students can be asked to create their own games to use the target vocabulary items 
in context  (D2.5, D.3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2,V4.2, V4.4, V7.2, V10.3, V14.3, V16.2, LS9, CS2.20). Students’ 
learning can be checked as described in items  (3), and  (4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum.
ENG6.5.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS : To draw the students’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme “life in the neighbourhood and the city”, the introductory digital story or an extract 
from it played so that the students can notice the target language chunks  (D3.2, CS2.2).  While watching 
the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. 
She/He imitates the action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the students to do the 
same  (V3.2, LS2, CS2.14) . She/he could hold up large pictures corresponding to the chunks when they 
are mentioned in the digital story to draw the students’ attention. The sentences with the target chunks 
are also written and placed on the Smart Board/blackboard/ whiteboard. The teacher also points to these 
sentences while pointing to the scenes in the story where they appear. There is no analysis or teaching of 
grammatical structures at this stage. Students can automatically and naturally identify the use of the target 
language chunks in the current context created in the introductory digital story without working on any rules 
or structures  (SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  To check the students’ identification of the 
target language chunks, after the students have finished watching the introductory digital story, the teacher 
asks them to read the sentences with the target language chunks written by the teacher on the Smart Board 
/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to find the same or similar sentences in the written version of the 
introductory digital story or another text that is shown on the Smart Board  (D3.2, SELS3.2, V3.3) . She/He 
also asks them to find the same or similar sentences with these chunks which are given in different types of 

===== PDF_PAGE_657 =====
657
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
tables prepared by the teacher  (CS2.7).  These tables do not include any explanations of grammatical rules, 
explanations, or formulas, and they only contain example sentences with target chunks in which important 
words with the target grammar are written in bold or different colours to attract students’ attention. The 
teacher asks them to look at the words in bold or in different colours and asks students to examine them  
(CS2.9).  Then the teacher asks the students to copy these sentences with target chunks written in bold 
or different colours into their notebooks. The teacher asks the students to make very similar sentences 
using the target words and asks them to share their sentences with each other in pairs, and then with the 
class  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, D3.2, V4.2, CS2.13,CS2.14, CS2.16.1, CS2.16.2).  Both the teacher and the class 
members give feedback to the students as they say their sentences  (CS2.19).  The teacher gives all students 
a checklist with simple symbols to evaluate each other’s work as explained in the items  (5) and  (6) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, LS6). 
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate students’ further practice with the target 
language chunks in the theme “life in the neighbourhood and the city” , the teacher shows some other 
sentences with these chunks in another context such as a short story, a short paragraph, and a short 
dialogue etc. and asks students to find the sentences with the target chunks in them and asks if they 
understand them  (SELS3.2, V3.3, V10.3, V14.3, V16.2, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.8). She/He gives some written 
activities and exercises to practise the target chunks in context. She/He also facilitates more fun activities 
and as described in items  (5),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum. To consolidate the target language chunks, the teacher organises different fun activity 
and game bundles that the students can practise and consolidate them  (CS2.13) where their learning can 
be checked as described in item  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum  (D2.5, V4.4). 
ENG6.5.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION : Practising through writing: Writing activities 
help students  to  produce  and  display  meaningful  written  language  for  their  personal  expression  and 
communication with others, by using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and 
the social language in this theme, as in other themes (V3.2, V10.3, V14.3, V16.2). 
ENG6.5.W2.
RECOGNISING THE MODEL:  Initially, students produce very limited and short pieces of writing such as 
sentences to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “life in the neighbourhood and 
the city”. They practise the language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat or simply 
explain what they hear and see in context and what they are asked to do. They are provided a written model/
example to copy to be able to notice significant points and elements in it  (SELS3.1).  While copying a short 
model writing, they become aware of the aspects such as the use of words, language chunks, punctuation, 
spelling and so on  (D3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). 
ENG6.5.W3.
CREATING THE WRITING CONTENT: Controlled writing of words and sentences turns to short paragraphs in 
a process writing manner with the support of the teacher’s feedback in the theme. This process is expanded 
and supported by several practical activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/ 
pantomime/video stories, dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, 
etc. to practise further by writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (D1.3, D3.1, SELS3.2,V3.4, V4.4, V7.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS9, CS2.20). 

===== PDF_PAGE_658 =====
658
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.5.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
projects, scripts for plays, diaries/journals, blogs, very short film scenarios, etc. to express their ideas, 
thoughts, and feelings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be contextual, practical, 
authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests and language level  (V3.4, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, 
LS9). 
ENG6.5.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students  interact  and  communicate 
with peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme in their writing  (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, 
V10.3, V14.3, V16.2, LS9, CS2.20). AI- based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students 
access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home in 
a variety of ways  (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3 ,V7.2, LS2, CS2.20). These activities are evaluated as described 
in items  (11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles  for  the  Implementation  of  the  English  Curriculum.
ENG6.5.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (D1.5, SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, 
LS1, LS6). 
ENG6.5.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING: The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from the 
first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance students’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language expressions of the theme about “life 
in the neighbourhood and the city with festivals and events  (sports, music, arts) inthe neighbourhood and 
city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city”  (V3.2, V3.4,V10.3, V14.3, V16.2). 
ENG6.5.S2
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL: In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, students 
recognise how the language with the target language items is used  (CS2.6).  They practise the language in a 
controlled way, by telling, repeating, explaining what they hear and see in the context  (D1.3, D3.2, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.4). 

===== PDF_PAGE_659 =====
659
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.5.S3
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues etc. as new opportunities for the students to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc  (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13). 
ENG6.5.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS:  Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products 
related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact 
with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme “life in the neighbourhood and the city with 
festivals and events  (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood 
and the city”  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V10.3, V14.3, V16.2, CS2.20).  AI-based technologies can be used for 
various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and 
projects at school and at home through recordings  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, V7.2,LS2, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG6.5.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students communicate with each other 
by seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme “life in the neighbourhood and the city” in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  
(SELS2.3, CS2.20).  Picture strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation 
and revision  (V3.4, V4.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). These new contents created are contextual, 
practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. Storification 
and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used together with other further speaking practice 
throughout the theme. Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended 
contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact and to communicate 
with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme and its components such as  “festivals and 
events (sports, music, arts) in the neighbourhood and city; transportation in the neighbourhood and the city” 
(V3.4, V4.2,V10.3, V14.3, V16.2, LS4, V10.3, V14.3, V16.2, CS3.1, CS2.20).  AI-based technologies can be used 
for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials 
and projects at school and at home through recordings   (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.3, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).  These 
are evaluated as described in items  (7),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use and practise by communicating with 
others.
ENG6.5.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole speaking-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different activities for 
creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, LS1, LS6). 

===== PDF_PAGE_660 =====
660
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To practise talking about complex directions in English by using the prepositions of place in a fun 
and interactive treasure hunt game.                                                                                                             
Activity title: Treasure Hunt Adventure
The teacher divides the class into small groups (3-4 students each) and tells them that they are going on 
an exciting treasure hunt. She/He gives each group a Treasure Hunt Map ( a hand-drawn or printed map of 
a fictional place like a pirate island, a mysterious castle, a hidden city with various landmarks and locations) 
and a set of Treasure Clue Cards (cards with clues or directions that lead students to the next location or 
object in the hunt).The cards describe where the next clue or “treasure” (a small object hidden on the map) is 
located using prepositions of place. Each group goes on a treasure hunt and follows the clues and describes 
where objects or locations are according to the prepositions of place. The teacher reads the first clue aloud 
to the class. For example: “The treasure is under the big tree near the castle”.  Groups discuss and figure 
out the location based on the clue. Students describe the position of the treasure on their map, using the 
correct prepositions of place. For example: “The treasure is under the big tree”. Once they find the location 
of the treasure, they check their answer with the teacher. If they are correct, they receive the next clue to 
continue the hunt. As groups move through the map, they encounter more clues with complex prepositions 
(e.g., “The hidden door is between the bookshelf and the window” or “The key is behind the painting in the 
corridor”). The first group to solve all the clues and find the final treasure (a hidden object somewhere in 
the room or on the map) wins the game. Once all the groups have completed the treasure hunt, ask them 
to share their favourite clues or most difficult clues with the class. The teacher praises students for their 
teamwork and creativity during the hunt. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To practise talking about complex directions in English by using the prepositions of place in a fun 
and interactive treasure hunt game.                                                                                                             
Activity title: Treasure Hunt Adventure                                                                                                    
The teacher divides the class into small groups (3-4 students each) and tells them that they are going on 
an exciting treasure hunt. The teacher hides a small object, such as a coin, or sticker that will be the final 
treasure in the classroom or in a specific area. Clue cards are also placed in different spots, each one leading 
to the next clue. Each clue describes the location of the next clue using a preposition of place. For example: 
“The treasure is under the desk”, “Look behind the door”. The teacher gives the class the first clue aloud. 
For example: “The treasure is under the table”.  Students follow the clue and find the location described 
using prepositions. When students find the correct location (e.g., under the table), they read the next clue. 
Example: “The next clue is behind the bookshelf”. As students move from one location to the next, they 
describe where things are located using prepositions, such as: “The book is on the shelf”. The first group to 
find the final treasure wins the game! Once the treasure is found, the teacher reviews the prepositions of the 
place used during the activity and discusses any mistakes. She/He provides feedback and praises students 
for their participation and teamwork! Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_661 =====
661
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 6: LIFE IN THE WORLD & CULTURE
Sub-themes: Countries, nationalities, and languages in 
the world; food types and events from different parts of 
the world
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in the world and culture” and covers 
the sub-themes of “countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food 
types and events from different parts of the world”. These components (sub-
themes) are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised 
use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and 
social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed 
to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within 
and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3.Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8.Questioning
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill     
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V19. Patriotism, V20. 
Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_662 =====
662
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Physical Education and Sports, Visual Arts, 
Music, Information Technologies and Software
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information 
Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. 
Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based 
Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, 
CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing Skill, CS2.20. 
Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_663 =====
663
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 6 is structured based on semi-holistic/semi-inductive approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.6.6.L1.  Students can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “life in the world and culture with countries, nationalities, and languages in the 
world; food types and events from different parts of the world” carefully.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience related to the current theme 
and content by recalling their background knowledge imaginatively in her/his own language 
without speaking it.
b) Students identify significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge and 
experiences and the clues to the current content without translation.
c) Students make predictions about the current content on “life in the world and culture” by using 
the relationships that they recognised accurately by looking at the provided realia, pictures, 
and context.
d) Students make predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/visual 
elements in relation to the current theme.
ENG.6.6.L2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “life in the world and culture 
with countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and events from different 
parts of the world” together through significant details and main components while listening/
watching it.
a) Students comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole.
b) Students recognise the significant details and components within the whole current content 
by listening (to) and watching it again in a careful manner.
ENG.6.6.L3.  Students can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “life in the world 
and culture with countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and events 
from different parts of the world” through significant details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Students check any initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals surrounding the current 
content.
b) Students make important and necessary classifications in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
c) Students make important and necessary comparisons in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content with the help of classifications and comparisons made 
earlier.
e) Students make significant inferences that contribute to the understanding of the meaning of 
the generally perceived current content.
f) Students construct the meaning of the current content in detail through the classifications/
comparisons/inferences made earlier in relation to it.
g) Students internalise the current content in an individualised and appropriate way according to 
age and language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_664 =====
664
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.6.6.L4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully 
about the whole listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content 
on “life in the world and culture with countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food 
types and events from different parts of the world”.
a) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content.
b) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content by sharing them with others.
ENG.6.6.P1.  Students can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“life in the world and culture with countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food 
types and events from different parts of the world” accurately, authentically, and naturally 
through spontaneous decision-making processes and use it in an appropriate and effective 
way when communicating with others.
a) Students listen to the current content by paying attention to the target phonological aspects 
including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Students reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source 
several times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Students recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts.
d) Students recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they 
are heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Students use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.6.6.R1.  Students can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content 
on “life in the world and culture with countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food 
types and events from different parts of the world”. 
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content efficiently.
b) Students recognise significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Students make significant preliminary predictions about the current content based on 
recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring the audio-visual 
clues surrounding it.
ENG.6.6.R2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “life in the world and culture 
with countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and events from different 
parts of the world” through skimming (looking quickly at) the audio-visual elements and 
reading the content very quickly.
a) Students review the current content by looking at the surrounding audio/visual materials to 
identify what it is about in general through skimming.
b) Students read the current content to scan the major components silently and quickly with the 
help of the clues provided. 
c) Students carefully read the current content silently and carefully to find significant details and 
components belonging to the theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_665 =====
665
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.6.6.R3.  Students can make meaning of / derive meaning from the current content about “life in the 
world and culture with countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and 
events from different parts of the world” by reading it carefully.
a) Students carefully check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial and detailed 
predictions that are made earlier. 
b) Students classify the significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
c) Students compare significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships within the current 
content that contribute to the perception of the content in a meaningful way.
e) Students make meaningful inferences from the information in the current content by 
examining it carefully.
f) Students internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to age and language level.
ENG.6.6.R4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “life in the world and culture with 
countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and events from different 
parts of the world” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have 
been carefully examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process.
b) Students convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been carefully 
examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing 
them with others.
c) Students produce new products related to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities. 
ENG.6.6.V1.  Students can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “life in the world 
and culture with countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and events 
from different parts of the world” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and 
use it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Students guess the main topic of the current content from the audio/visual/written elements 
(e.g. sound, voices, scenes, written words) in the contextual material by listening (to)/watching/
reading it several times for recognition.
b) Students recognise sub-themes/key components of the target words to which they belong in 
the current content by scanning.
c) Students recognise the target words related to the main components of the current content 
with the help of the audio/visual/written elements and other clues.
d) Students repeat aloud the relevant target key components and target vocabulary in the 
current content with the whole class, in groups, and then individually together with or after 
listening (to)/watching/reading the source material.
e) Students recognise the use of target words and expressions in the current content by making 
various guesses with the help of supplementary elements.
f) Students make context-appropriate selections automatically by associating target words 
with their pre-existing conceptual meanings in the mind without analysing their contextual 
meaning in detail. 

===== PDF_PAGE_666 =====
666
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
g) Students use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts by being aware of their differences when communicating with others.
ENG.6.6.G1.  Students can select and use the target grammatical elements of the current content about 
“life in the world and culture with countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food 
types and events from different parts of the world” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, 
and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively when communicating with others.
a) Students become familiar with the current content by listening (to)/watching/reading it a few 
times attentively.
b) Students listen (to)/watch/read the same content, attentively and mindfully, including the use 
of target grammatical chunks presented verbally in context with the help of body language.
c) Students verbally and automatically repeat simple and meaningful clauses/sentences 
containing target grammatical chunks that they have noticed in the current content that they 
have heard/viewed/read without explicit knowledge of the rules.
d) Students act out physically the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks 
in the current content heard/viewed/read by repeating them several times without knowing, 
analysing, and thinking about their rules.
e) Students see and read the example sentences containing target grammatical chunks provided 
for language awareness carefully.
f) Students gain awareness of clauses/sentences that contain target grammatical chunks that 
are presented for the purpose of raising language awareness.
g) Students recognise the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks when 
they encounter them by seeing and/or hearing them in different contexts.
h) Students use the recognised target grammatical chunks naturally, authentically, and 
automatically in new contextual tasks and activities without analysing their rules.
i) Students produce new and meaningful verbal/written content about the current theme by 
using the target grammatical chunks in meaningful tasks without knowing and analysing their 
rules.
j) Students use the target language chunks authentically, automatically, and naturally in 
communication processes without analysing their rules in meaningful contexts.
ENG.6.6.W1.  Students can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “life 
in the world and culture with countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food types 
and events from different parts of the world”.
a) Students relate their pre-existing knowledge and experience used in the initial processes of 
writing-expression skills to the current content by activating them in relation with the current 
content.
b) Students understand what the writing task and its content are in relation to the current 
content correctly by making use of their pre-existing knowledge and experience as guided and 
assigned.
ENG.6.6.W2.  Students can understand the model/example for the writing task about the current content 
on “life in the world and culture with countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food 
types and events from different parts of the world”.
a) Students understand the components and details of the content in the provided model/
sample which is displayed as a guide by examining it carefully.
ENG.6.6.W3.  Students can organise a content for the assigned writing task on the current content “life in 
the world and culture with countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food types 
and events from different parts of the world” based on the model/example provided.

===== PDF_PAGE_667 =====
667
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students conduct preliminary research for a prepared writing situation according to the 
current content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
b) Students develop a simple draft for a prepared/or unprepared writing task about the current 
content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
c) Students organise and/or produce materials relevant to the content for a prepared/
unprepared writing task, appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level. 
ENG.6.6.W4.  Students can individually construct/form content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “life in the world and culture with countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; 
food types and events from different parts of the world”.
a) Students present appropriate and accurate materials for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task about the current theme according to the assigned writing type, age, and language 
level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and rules relevant to the assigned writing 
type for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language chunks accurately and appropriately 
for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task about the current content by selecting them 
according to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
d) Students express important messages in the written current content to the reader accurately 
and appropriately for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
ENG.6.6.W5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information in the new written tasks about the 
“life in the world and culture with countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food 
types and events from different parts of the world” to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information in the current content or similar information in a different content 
by internalising and selecting it individually and reorganising it as required and meaningfully in 
different contexts.
b) Students exchange information/ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge meaningfully with others.
ENG.6.6.W6.  Students can reflect on their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “life in the world and culture with 
countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and events from different 
parts of the world” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in 
relation to the current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in relation to the 
writing-expression process about the current content with others.
c) Students produce new written products related to the current writing-expression content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities.
ENG.6.6.S1.  Students can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “life in 
the world and culture with countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and 
events from different parts of the world”.
a) Students make connections with the current content by activating their pre-existing 
knowledge and experiences that they have recalled in the listening (to)/watching/reading 
sections previously.
ENG.6.6.S2.  Students can use the model/example for producing verbal content about the current content 
on “life in the world and culture with countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food 
types and events from different parts of the world”.

===== PDF_PAGE_668 =====
668
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students listen (to)/watch/read the model/example for the current content with the help of 
audio/visual/written elements.
ENG.6.6.S3.  Students can organise a new verbal content on “life in the world and culture with countries, 
nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and events from different parts of the 
world” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students recognise what form and type of content is expected and assigned for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations based on audio/visual/written content as provided in the 
model/example.
b) Students organise the content for prepared/unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate 
and accurate way as they have heard/seen/read in the model/example.
c) Students develop a draft for prepared/unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the 
age and language level as presented in the model/sample content.
d) Students organise supplementary audio/visual/written materials for prepared/or unprepared 
speaking situations, appropriate to age and language level, as provided in the model/sample 
content.
e) Students organise the information about the current content to be presented for prepared/or 
unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate way as required.
ENG.6.6.S4.  Students can construct a new verbal content on “life in the world and culture with countries, 
nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and events from different parts of the 
world” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students use target pronunciation, vocabulary, language chunks, and forms of discourse 
related to the current content effectively by selecting them accurately and appropriately for 
prepared/unprepared speaking situations.
b) Students present individually prepared content in an accurate and efficient way as presented 
in the model/example for prepared speaking situations clearly, efficiently, and appropriately.
c) Students present individually prepared information in an accurate and efficient way as 
presented in the model/example for unprepared speaking situations.
d) Students express the message about the current content clearly to the reader by using all 
supplementary elements and body language in an appropriate and accurate way in context for 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.6.6.S5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information about the “life in the world and 
culture with countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and events from 
different parts of the world” to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information presented in the current content by reorganising it appropriately, 
efficiently, individually, and verbally in different contexts.
b) Students engage in appropriate and efficient verbal communication by sharing the 
reconstructed meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.6.6.S6.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
speaking-expression process about the current content, “life in the world and culture with 
countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and events from different 
parts of the world” to communicate with other people in relation to themselves or others, 
both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully in 
relation to the speaking-expression process about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_669 =====
669
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN THE WORLD & CULTURE
Sub-themes: Countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and events from different 
parts of the world
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for countries, nationalities and languages in the world: 
Nouns: A country, a nation, a capital, a flag, a government, a tradition, a heritage.
Countries: Türkiye, England, Germany, Austria, Greece, Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, Poland, 
Denmark, Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden, India, Spain, Italy.
Nationalities/Languages: Turkish/Turkish, English/English, German/German, Austrian/German, Greek/
Greek, Turkish Cypriot/Turkish, Polish/Polish, Danish/Danish, Belgian/Dutch-French-German, Dutch/Dutch, 
Swedish/Swedish, Spanish/Spanish, French/French, Italian/Italian, Indian/Hindu-English.
Adjectives: National, official, foreign, historic, traditional, worth.
Vocabulary for food types and events from different parts of the world: Nouns: Experience, a cuisine, an 
ingredient, an appetiser, a main course, a dessert, dumplings, a dish, a competition.
Verbs: To experience, to dry, to heat. 
Adjectives: Sour, bitter, incredible, gorgeous, crunchy, high-quality, homemade, spicy, crispy, flavourful. 
Adverbs: Everywhere, somewhere, anywhere, nowhere.
Phrases: Enjoy your meal!, street food, food stalls, pop-up markets.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “ 29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Simple Past Tense: (We enjoyed the delicious cuisine at the street food festival).
-Question tags for The Simple Past Tense (regular verbs): (They visited the capital of Greece, didn’t they?)
Functions of the Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of The Simple Past Tense: Expressing actions, events, or situations that started and finished at a 
specific time in the past.
-Use of question tags for The Simple Past Tense (regular verbs): Confirming information or asking for 
agreement about past actions.
Target Social Language in Use:
I had culture shock when we moved to Spain! 
We both love football so we speak the same language!
The Topkapı Palace is world famous!

===== PDF_PAGE_670 =====
670
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
l, m, n, (ng), o, p
Vowel: o: (/əʊ/, /ɒ/, /əʊ/)
Consonants:  l: (/ɛl/ /l/); m: (/ɛm/,/m/);  n: (/ɛn/, /n/); p: ( piː//p/)
*(Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme).
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “life in the world and culture” and its components such as “countries, 
nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and events from different parts of the world” is present 
in almost all languages. People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with 
them and transfer it to their new language learning. For instance, a lower secondary school student will 
know what “life in the world and culture” and its components such as “countries, nationalities, and languages 
in the world; food types and events from different parts of the world” means but will not know how to say 
them in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing 
knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more 
easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts:
countries, nationalities, languages, languages in the world, food types, food events, food types  from different 
parts of the world, food events from different parts of the world
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will design a creative poster about a country of their choice. The 
poster will show the country’s name, the nationality of its people, and the language they speak. It will also 
include a description of a traditional food from the country, detailing its ingredients and cultural importance. 
Additionally, students will provide information about a cultural event or festival where the food is served, 
describing the traditions and activities related to it. The poster should be visually appealing with drawings, 
images, and descriptive text to focus on the unique aspects of the country. The assignment will be evaluated 
by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “life in the world and culture” and its components such as 
“countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and events from different parts of the world”. 
As they are lower secondary school students in year 6 (six), they can know what “life in the world and culture” 
and its components such as “countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and events 
from different parts of the world” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people who start 
to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and transfer 
it to their new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these things in a foreign 
language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in 
their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a foreign language, 
in this case English.
As they are students in year 6 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “life 
in the world and culture” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or 
years. These grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning 
of the year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the 
current theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.

===== PDF_PAGE_671 =====
671
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about the “life in the world and culture” and its components such as “countries, nationalities, and 
languages in the world; food types and events from different parts of the world”. Recalling and practising 
with relevant vocabulary and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would 
be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “life in the world and 
culture”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary and language grammar items 
from the themes in previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, 
their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to 
understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and grammatical items to build their competence in the 
current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge 
and to facilitate the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current theme. (Their performance can be 
evaluated by rubrics throughout these practices).
Establishing Links
Students can recall the current (theme) concept of “life in the world and culture” and its components such as 
“countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and events from different parts of
the world” by remembering their pre-existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) 
in their own language to make links with the current activities in the current theme in English without 
translating anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
various materials such as short scene from a film, series, a part from a story, a poster etc. which is appropriate 
to the age, level, and pedagogy could be used before the main teaching/learning flow of the class begins. 
They would give a general idea of the theme. Students are facilitated with the relevant materials through 
various activities.  When they have finished working on it, the teacher asks them in English if they understood 
what it was about. For checking their understanding, she/he can design several activities. For instance, they 
can write a related word that they know in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways can be tried.
The teacher asks them to wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the digital introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any 
further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme “life in the world and culture” in the classroom, to prepare the students 
emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an 
icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-
being. This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/
rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote/a very short story, 
watching a pantomime/cartoon story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does 
not require any knowledge of English  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4). 
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills  (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection 
and use) are used in an integrated way around “life in the world and culture” and sub-themes “countries, 
nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and events from different parts of the world” , allowing 
students to build background knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks 
throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support 
the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the 
teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds 

===== PDF_PAGE_672 =====
672
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
on the previous one to promote language development and to increase communicative competence. The 
theme is characterised by a balanced integration of all the skills, where students engage with input  (listening/
watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) and respond through output  (speaking-expression 
and writing-expression) with the help of their vocabulary, grammar and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG6.6.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: Having seen a visual about and having guessed 
the topic of “life in the world and culture” during the background recall session, students can have a vision 
of the current theme as a general concept in the current  (new) theme  (D3.2,SELS1.1, V3.2, V3.3, V4.5, LS1, 
LS4, CS2.11, CS2.16.2). So, a further concept check with listening/watching for gist activities including more 
guessing games using clues from some pictures, realia, short video clips etc. help them prepare for the 
current theme  (CS2.6, CS2.8).  For each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as the main context 
of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through the theme to cover target pronunciation, 
vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole theme  (CS2.14).  
It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. The teacher asks 
them whether their guesses during the background recall session were correct and also what they think the 
introductory digital story that they are going to watch could be about  (CS2.8).  As they have already seen 
a scene from a film about the theme and the pictures, realia, etc. they can easily answer what the current 
theme will be about and that their guesses were true  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.3, V3.4, V3.3,V4.5, 
LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17). 
ENG6.6.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING: The teacher asks the students to 
watch the introductory digital story carefully, recalling the work done with visuals  (the scene from a film, 
pictures, realia, or video clips about the theme shown earlier)   (CS2.11) .  Students watch the introductory 
digital story to consolidate the identification of the theme “life in the world and culture”  in it as a whole  
(CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that the students can understand the theme holistically  
(D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.3,V3.4, V3.3, V4.5, LS2, LS4, CS2.14, CS2.16.2). 
ENG6.6.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw students’ attention to 
the content, some realia brought into the classroom by the teacher could be  (V3.3,V4.5).  The teacher 
could show the corresponding objects to the students when the corresponding vocabulary for the main 
components of the theme “life in the world and culture”  is mentioned in the introductory digital story, without 
stopping the video while the students watch the story  (CS2.6).  When they have watched the whole story, the 
teacher could show the realia items on the table and ask questions with two options  (CS2.5).  As one of the 
words is from the previous themes, students could hear, understand, recognise and learn the  (new) target 
vocabulary for each main component of the theme easily  (CS2.1).  In this way, the teacher could engage in 
a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the components of the theme, and that 
they have understood each realia item is about one component  (CS2.8).  Further activities and games can 
be played at this stage to reinforce the general meaning of the theme through its main components  (D1.1, 
D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4). 
To check whether the students understand the general topic of the theme “life in the world and culture” and 
remember the sequence of the scenes of the introductory digital story, the teacher shows an organiser with 
the mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the students to look at the images/
pictures of the scenes for a while  (CS2.3).  She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs in their seats 
with the mixed paper pictures she/he has already given to the students  (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS4, 
LS6). When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for the scenes of the story, the teacher asks the 

===== PDF_PAGE_673 =====
673
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
students to take turns or volunteer to sort the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board  (or the pictures on 
the blackboard)  (SELS1.2, CS2.6, CS2.10).  This will help the students to organise the story as a whole so that 
they can identify the main theme and the components of the theme from their memories  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, 
V16.3, V20.4, CS2.12). 
ENG6.6.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/ W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY : The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process   (SELS1.3, V3.4). Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, 
LS5, LS6).  The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design  (V10.3). 
ENG6.6.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION : To practise pronunciation of the new target words, word 
groups, language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “life in the world and culture” 
and the words and/or word groups for the sub-themes “countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; 
food types and events from different parts of the world”  ,the teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch 
the whole or some extracts from the introductory digital story by noticing how words are pronounced V3.3, 
V3.3, V4.5 LS4, CS2.6).  She/He asks them to repeat the word aloud when she/he stops the video for a word 
and says it. The teacher then asks the students to listen and repeat the same words aloud a few times as 
a whole class after listening to the recordings that she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 
programmes  (LS2, CS2.16.3) . The teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as showing 
the picture of the target word to the students to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when 
they hear the word from the recording, and then both  (CS2.8).  To help the students pronounce the words 
accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/
him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers  (D3.2, D3.6, 
SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, CS2.14). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Practice of pronunciation could be done with different 
forms of TPR, gamification and drama activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words/word groups for 
the sub-themes “countries, nationalities, and languages in the world; food types and events from different 
parts of the world”, the students listen  (CS2.9); then the teacher says the target words/word groups and 
acts them out, the students repeat after her/him  (SELS2.1, CS2.14) .  Then the teacher and the students 
say the target words/word groups and act them out together at the same time. Then the teacher says the 
words/word groups and acts them out. These activities can be done through the actions for the sub-themes   
(D2.3, D2.5, V3.3, V3.3, V4.5).As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, sadly, 
angrily, etc. using different tones of voice  (SELS2.3, CS2.8, CS2.11).  They also practise for the target social 
language chunks using the same or similar techniques. During the repetitions, they point to relevant pictures 
that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom  (CS2.12).  Some action sequences are also 
created in which the students can practise the social language in a fun way by repeating, pointing, miming, 
and acting out in several games  (SELS2.1, V7.2, LS5, LS6, LS9). The teacher facilitates some activities with 
dialogues and games in which students can practice the target pronunciation by selecting and using them 
accurately, naturally, and authentically  (CS3.1).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such 
as shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several 
sound drills  (SELS2.2).  The target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are 
practised through them  (CS2.13).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.5, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4).  

===== PDF_PAGE_674 =====
674
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.6.R1
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS: The teacher facilitates reading and writing 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise 
techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the 
theme in various forms and amounts. Reading is done in two ways in the theme by using the written version 
of the introductory digital story and additional reading texts in reading sections of the instructional material 
to be used  (V3.2, LS2, LS4) .  Various reading styles including silent reading, speed reading, jigsaw reading 
and basic reading techniques including skimming, scanning, and reading for details during pre-reading, 
while-reading and post-reading phases are used in the theme  (V3.4, LS1, CS2.3, CS2.6) . The ultimate aim 
of reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills and 
critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend and talk/write about the content in a meaningful and 
communicative way  (V3.3, V7.2, LS5, CS3.3). For the initial stage of reading, the teacher asks the students 
to look at the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) 
surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory story or a new text in the reading section of 
the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the conceptual meanings they already have about 
the theme  (CS2.8).  At this stage, the teacher could ask the students to read the title of the theme and ask 
the students which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title  (SELS1.1, 
CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new words or the words they do not know. 
She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity by using the words they know and that there is time 
to work on the new words of the new theme later  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, CS2.10, CS2.12). 
ENG6.6.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING : Students go on with a scanning activity to find 
out the most important details of the introductory digital story and/or a new text in the reading section which 
is organised to help students to know more about the reading content  (CS2.6, CS2.7).  In this way they could 
be able to recognise the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or 
tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned  (quickly read) in the story  (CS2.4).  By doing so, they 
will be able to understand the story/text in general using the main elements  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, V3.4, LS1). 
ENG6.6.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Then the teacher asks the students to do a jigsaw reading activity, 
so she/he shows the written version of the introductory digital story or the text in the reading section on the 
blackboard/Smart Board  (or in any other teaching material).  She/He asks the students to work in pairs to 
share the text  (SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the text and the second peer reads the other half 
of the text in a given time  (CS2.6).  They are then asked to share what they have understood from their part 
with their peer, also in a given time. In this way, they talk about the whole story after reading it silently, in the 
jigsaw reading style  (D2.4, D3.6, V3.4, V4.2, V16.2, LS1, LS6,CS2.8, CS2.9) .  Some speed-reading activities 
can be used to develop students’ reading and comprehension skills. These activities can be evaluated as 
explained in the item  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After 
sharing their parts, students proceed with the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical 
chunks, and semantic meaning relatively with the help of the teacher  (CS2.14).  For dealing with the semantic 
meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, 
open-ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1).  From display to communicative open-ended, various 
types of questions are used to understand the meaning of the text  (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, CS2.6).  During this 
process students work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings  (D3.2, D3.7, V3.3, 
V7.2, V20.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 

===== PDF_PAGE_675 =====
675
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.6.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process  (SELS1.3).  Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive   (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates 
different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design   (D2.3, D3.5, 
V4.2, V6.2, V10.3, V12.1, LS1, LS6). 
ENG6.6.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY : At this stage, students remember what the 
theme is about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/ 
watching, and pre-reading sessions  (SELS1.1).  As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal with the 
main components and target vocabulary of the theme  (V3.2, LS1). 
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY : A scanning activity to find out the main details of the 
introductory digital story  (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help students to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some important pictures, words or events about the main components 
of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen 
and scanned  (quickly read) in the story. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general 
by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items  (D3.2, D3.6, LS1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7).Then the students read the written version of the digital story again silently,  
(or the reading text in the reading section), to check whether they know any of the target vocabulary items 
about the theme  (V 3.3, V4.5, CS2.8) . They underline the words whose meaning they do not know while 
reading silently  (CS2.17).  Students say these words when they finish reading and the teacher writes these 
words on the Smart Board/blackboard/ white board as they say them. The teacher writes only the target 
words on the Smart Board/blackboard as active words that the students have said. She/He quickly deals 
with the non-target passive vocabulary items by using pictures, mimics, gestures, imitations, examples, 
etc. But she/he takes time to facilitate the teaching of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.2, V3.3, V3.4, LS2, 
LS4,CS2.4, CS2.5, CS2.7). 
To introduce and practise the meanings of the target vocabulary related to the theme, that the students do 
not know, the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story  (or the video of the reading 
text if there is one) again. From the beginning, whenever a target item is mentioned, the teacher stops the 
video and asks several questions in the form of two options, one of which is a word from the previous themes 
that they already know  ( V3.3, V4.5, CS2.16.1, CS2.6) .  By guessing what they are, the students hear the 
English equivalents of the words for the theme and they answer as a whole class in chorus. In this way, they 
are introduced to the meanings of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6,D3.7, CS2.10).  This is conducted in the form 
of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (SELS2.1)  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (V3.3, V3.4, V3.3, V4.5, LS1, LS2) .  
After having watched the introductory digital story, the teacher shows some pictures for the sub-themes, 
on the walls as clues and says the words aloud several times in sentences by pointing to the pictures and the 
students repeat after her/him  (D2.3, V3.3, V4.5 CS2.6, CS2.11).  In this way, the main vocabulary items of the 
theme are introduced to the students in English as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum  (V3.3, V4.5). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY : The teacher can prepare an activity using the Web 2.0 
programme with images/pictures, and symbolic images for some categories about the components of the 
theme “life in the world and culture”.  She/He also prepares mixed images/pictures for target vocabulary 

===== PDF_PAGE_676 =====
676
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
items for the activities which can be done in relation to the components. She/He asks the students to look 
at the mixed pile of images/pictures of the main components of the theme on the Smart Board screen and 
scan them for a while to remember them  (V4.5, V14.3, V16.3, V19.1, V19.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.4). She/He explains 
to the students that the items will be placed under the correct category, but first she/he gives the students 
the cut-out pictures of the activities and a large sheet of paper with the categories written on it and the cut-
out pictures will be placed under each category correctly  (V3.3, L2, LS4, CS2.5) . The teacher asks them 
to work in pairs and place the cut-out pictures in the right category and ask each other some questions 
about the theme   (D3.2, D3.8, SELS2.2, V3.3, V4.5). When the students have finished working with the 
cut-out pictures and asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or 
volunteer to go to the Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures under the right category 
on the screen  (SELS1.2, V3.4, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the 
main concept and its components are consolidated through categorisation. This activity can be done with 
real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. The teacher asks the students 
to copy the words next to the pictures they have pasted or drawn in their picture dictionaries and then asks 
them to exchange their picture dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling  (D3.2, SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, LS9). To consolidate the meaning, selection, and use of the new target vocabulary 
items, the teacher could organise activities and tasks using pictures, flashcards, sounds, realia, and any 
other materials to play games such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, Wordscapes, Scrabble, 
Pictionary, Letter Scramble, Acronyms, Charades etc. Games could be adapted according to the teacher’s 
objectives  (pronunciation, spelling, meaning, selection, use etc.), age, interests and language level of the 
students  (CS2.13).  Students can be asked to create their own games to use the target vocabulary items 
in context  (D2.5, D.3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V4.2, V4.4, V7.2, V3.3, V4.5, LS9, CS2.20). Students’ learning 
can be checked as described in items  (3), and  (4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
ENG6.6.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS : To draw the students’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme “life in the world and culture”, the introductory digital story or an extract from it played 
so that the students can notice the target language chunks  (D3.2, CS2.2).  While watching the introductory 
digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates 
the action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the students to do the same  (V3.2, LS2, 
CS2.14). She could hold up large pictures corresponding to the chunks when they are mentioned in the digital 
story to draw the students’ attention. The sentences with the target chunks are also written and placed on 
the Smart Board/blackboard/ whiteboard. The teacher also points to these sentences while pointing to the 
scenes in the story where they appear. There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this 
stage. Students can automatically and naturally identify the use of the target language chunks in the current 
context created in the introductory digital story without working on any rules or structures  (SELS3.1, V3.4, 
LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  To check the students’ identification of the target language chunks, 
after the students have finished watching the introductory digital story, the teacher asks them to read 
the sentences with the target language chunks written by the teacher on the Smart Board /blackboard/
whiteboard and asks them to find the same or similar sentences in the written version of the introductory 
digital story or another text that is shown on the Smart Board  (D3.2, SELS3.2, V3.3). She/He also asks them 
to find the same or similar sentences with these chunks which are given in different types of tables prepared 
by the teacher  (CS2.7).  These tables do not include any explanations of grammatical rules, explanations, 
or formulas, and they only contain example sentences with target chunks in which important words with the 
target grammar are written in bold or different colours to attract students’ attention. The teacher asks them 
to look at the words in bold or in different colours and asks students to examine them  (CS2.9).  Then the 
teacher asks the students to copy these sentences with target chunks written in bold or different colours 
into their notebooks. The teacher asks the students to make very similar sentences using the target words 
and asks them to share their sentences with each other in pairs, and then with the class  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, 

===== PDF_PAGE_677 =====
677
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
D3.2, V4.2, CS2.13,CS2.14, CS2.16.1, CS2.16.2).  Both the teacher and the class members give feedback to 
the students as they say their sentences  (CS2.19).  The teacher gives all students a checklist with simple 
symbols to evaluate each other’s work as explained in the items  (5) and  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, LS6). 
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate students’ further practice with the target 
language chunks in the theme “life in the world and culture”, the teacher shows some other sentences with 
these chunks in another context such as a short story, a short paragraph, and a short dialogue etc. and asks 
students to find the sentences with the target chunks in them and asks if they understand them  (SELS3.2, 
V3.3, V3.3, V4.5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.8).  She/He gives some written activities and exercises to practise the 
target chunks in context. She/He also facilitates more fun activities and as described in items  (5),  (8),  (9), 
and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. To consolidate the 
target language chunks, the teacher organises different fun activity and game bundles that the students can 
practise and consolidate them  (CS2.13) where their learning can be checked as described in item  (10) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (D2.5, V4.4). 
ENG6.6.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION : Practising through writing: Writing activities 
help students  to  produce  and  display  meaningful  written  language  for  their  personal  expression  and 
communication with others, by using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and 
the social language in this theme, as in other themes (V3.2, V3.3, V4.5). 
ENG6.6.W2.
RECOGNISING THE MODEL:  Initially, students produce very limited and short pieces of writing such as 
sentences to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “life in the world and culture”. 
They practise the language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat or simply explain 
what they hear and see in context and what they are asked to do. They are provided a written model/example 
to copy to be able to notice significant points and elements in it  (SELS3.1).  While copying a short model 
writing, they become aware of the aspects such as the use of words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling 
and so on  (D3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). 
ENG6.6.W3.
CREATING THE WRITING CONTENT: Controlled writing of words and sentences turns to short paragraphs in 
a process writing manner with the support of the teacher’s feedback in the theme. This process is expanded 
and supported by several practical activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/ 
pantomime/video stories, dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, 
etc. to practise further by writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (D1.3, D3.1, SELS3.2,V3.4, V4.4, V7.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG6.6.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
projects, scripts for plays, diaries/journals, blogs, very short film scenarios, etc. to express their ideas, 
thoughts, and feelings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be contextual, practical, 

===== PDF_PAGE_678 =====
678
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests and language level  (V3.4, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, 
LS9). 
ENG6.6.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING: Students  interact  and  communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the language including the target words, language 
chunks, and the social language for the theme in their writing  (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V3.3, V4.5, 
LS9, CS2.20).  AI- based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways  
(D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3,V7.2, LS2, CS2.20). These activities are evaluated as described in items  (11) and  
(12) in the section 1.2. Principles  for  the  Implementation  of  the  English  Curriculum.
ENG6.6.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (D1.5, SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, 
LS1, LS6). 
ENG6.6.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING: The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from the 
first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance students’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language expressions of the theme  (V3.2, 
V3.4, V3.3, V4.5). 
ENG6.6.S2
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL: In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, students 
recognise how the language with the target language items is used  (CS2.6).  They practise the language in a 
controlled way, by telling, repeating, explaining what they hear and see in the context  (D1.3, D3.2, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.4). 
ENG6.6.S3
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT : In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues etc. as new opportunities for the students to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc  (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13). 
ENG6.6.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS:  Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products 
related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact 
with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V3.3, V4.5, 

===== PDF_PAGE_679 =====
679
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings   
(D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, V7.2,LS2, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG6.6.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Students communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to 
the theme “life in the world and culture” in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.3, CS2.20).  
Picture strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision  (V3.4, 
V4.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, 
real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. Storification and gamification 
techniques are actively and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the 
theme. Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts 
such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact and to communicate with peers 
and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
grammar in use, and the social language for the theme and its components such as “countries, nationalities, 
and languages in the world; food types and events from different parts of the world” (V3.4, V4.2, V3.3, V4.5, 
LS4, CS3.1,CS2.20) .  AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to 
authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.3, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items  (7),  (8),  
(9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can 
expand their language use and practise by communicating with others.
ENG6.6.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole speaking-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different activities for 
creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, LS1, LS6).
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To practice the language for actions, events, or situations that started and finished at a specific 
time in the past in English through a fun and creative writing activity.
Activity 1: Time Traveller’s Diary
The teacher divides the class into pairs and tells students they are time travellers who have just returned 
from an adventurous trip to the past. She/He uses pictures or a timeline to help students visualize different 
time periods. Students select a time period they want to visit. The teacher provides a list of options, or lets 
them choose freely (e.g., Prehistoric Era, ancient Anatolia, ancient Egypt, Ancient Rome, the 1990s). She/He 
asks them to write an entry in their “Time Traveller’s Diary”, describing what they saw, did, and experienced 
while visiting a different time period. She/He challenges them to write full paragraphs with more complex 
sentences, adding details to their descriptions. Example: “I visited ancient Egypt. The pyramids were huge, 
and I met a friendly merchant. He sold me a beautiful necklace”. After pairs finish their entry, she/he allows 
them to share their diary entries with the class and asks them to discuss the different time periods that their 
classmates visited. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.

===== PDF_PAGE_680 =====
680
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Supporting
Objective: To practice the language for actions, events, or situations that started and finished at a specific 
time in the past in English through a fun and creative writing activity.
Activity 1: Time Traveller’s Diary
The teacher divides the class into pairs and tells students they are time travellers who have just returned 
from an adventurous trip to the past. She/He gives a visual timeline or images of each era to help them 
imagine what might happen there. She/He instructs students to write a brief diary entry describing their 
experiences using the simple past tense and provides a list of common verbs in the past tense (e.g., “saw, 
went, met, ate”) for students who need additional support with vocabulary. After pairs finish their entries, 
she/he allows them to share their diary entries with the class and asks students to interview each other 
about their time travel adventures. One student becomes the “time traveller”, and the other asks questions 
like, “What did you see?” or “Who did you meet?”.  Then she/he asks them to highlight the verbs they used in 
the past tense and discuss the different time periods that their classmates visited. Students reflect on their 
thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_681 =====
681
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 7: LIFE IN NATURE & GLOBAL PROBLEMS
Sub-themes: Activities in nature; environmental 
problems in the world and solutions
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in nature and global problems” 
and covers the sub-themes of “activities in nature; environmental problems 
in the world and solutions”. These components (sub-themes) are integrated 
into the learning process through the contextualised use of target vocabulary, 
grammatical structures, phonological features, and social language 
expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, 
collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ 
developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of 
this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences 
needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the 
school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3.Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8.Questioning
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill                        
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V18. Cleanliness, V19. 
Patriotism, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_682 =====
682
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Physical Education and Sports, Visual Arts, 
Music, Information Technologies and Software
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information 
Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. 
Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based 
Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, 
CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing Skill, CS2.20. 
Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_683 =====
683
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 6 is structured based on semi-holistic/semi-inductive approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.6.7.L1.  Students can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “life in nature and global problems with activities in nature; environmental problems 
in the world and solutions” carefully.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience related to the current theme 
and content by recalling their background knowledge imaginatively in her/his own language 
without speaking it.
b) Students identify significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge and 
experiences and the clues to the current content without translation.
c) Students make predictions about the current content on “life in nature and global problems” 
by using the relationships that they recognised accurately by looking at the provided realia, 
pictures, and context.
d) Students make predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/visual 
elements in relation to the current theme.
ENG.6.7.L2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “life in nature and global problems 
with activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and solutions” together through 
significant details and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Students comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole.
b) Students recognise the significant details and components within the whole current content 
by listening (to) and watching it again in a careful manner.
ENG.6.7.L3.  Students can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “life in nature and 
global problems with activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and solutions” 
through significant details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Students check any initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals surrounding the current 
content.
b) Students make important and necessary classifications in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
c) Students make important and necessary comparisons in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content with the help of classifications and comparisons made 
earlier.
e) Students make significant inferences that contribute to the understanding of the meaning of 
the generally perceived current content.
f) Students construct the meaning of the current content in detail through the classifications/
comparisons/inferences made earlier in relation to it.
g) Students internalise the current content in an individualised and appropriate way according to 
age and language level.
ENG.6.7.L4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully 
about the whole listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content 
on “life in nature and global problems with activities in nature; environmental problems in the 
world and solutions”.

===== PDF_PAGE_684 =====
684
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content.
b) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content by sharing them with others.
ENG.6.7.P1.  Students can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“life in nature and global problems with activities in nature; environmental problems in the 
world and solutions” accurately, authentically, and naturally through spontaneous decision-
making processes and use it in an appropriate and effective way when communicating with 
others.
a) Students listen to the current content by paying attention to the target phonological aspects 
including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Students reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source 
several times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Students recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts.
d) Students recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they 
are heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Students use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.6.7.R1.  Students can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content 
on “life in nature and global problems with activities in nature; environmental problems in the 
world and solutions”. 
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content efficiently.
b) Students recognise significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Students make significant preliminary predictions about the current content based on 
recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring the audio-visual 
clues surrounding it.
ENG.6.7.R2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “life in nature and global problems 
with activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and solutions” through skimming 
(looking quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Students review the current content by looking at the surrounding audio/visual materials to 
identify what it is about in general through skimming.
b) Students read the current content to scan the major components silently and quickly with the 
help of the clues provided. 
c) Students carefully read the current content silently and carefully to find significant details and 
components belonging to the theme.
ENG.6.7.R3.  Students can make meaning of / derive meaning from the current content about “life in 
nature and global problems with activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and 
solutions” by reading it carefully.
a) Students carefully check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial and detailed 
predictions that are made earlier. 

===== PDF_PAGE_685 =====
685
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students classify the significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
c) Students compare significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships within the current 
content that contribute to the perception of the content in a meaningful way.
e) Students make meaningful inferences from the information in the current content by 
examining it carefully.
f) Students internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to age and language level.
ENG.6.7.R4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “life in nature and global problems 
with activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and solutions” in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have 
been carefully examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process.
b) Students convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been carefully 
examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing 
them with others.
c) Students produce new products related to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities. 
ENG.6.7.V1.  Students can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “life in nature 
and global problems with activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and 
solutions” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and 
effectively when communicating with others.
a) Students guess the main topic of the current content from the audio/visual/written elements 
(e.g. sound, voices, scenes, written words) in the contextual material by listening (to)/watching/
reading it several times for recognition.
b) Students recognise sub-themes/key components of the target words to which they belong in 
the current content by scanning.
c) Students recognise the target words related to the main components of the current content 
with the help of the audio/visual/written elements and other clues.
d) Students repeat aloud the relevant target key components and target vocabulary in the 
current content with the whole class, in groups, and then individually together with or after 
listening (to)/watching/reading the source material.
e) Students recognise the use of target words and expressions in the current content by making 
various guesses with the help of supplementary elements.
f) Students make context-appropriate selections automatically by associating target words 
with their pre-existing conceptual meanings in the mind without analysing their contextual 
meaning in detail. 
g) Students use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts by being aware of their differences when communicating with others.
ENG.6.7.G1.  Students can select and use the target grammatical elements of the current content about “life 
in nature and global problems with activities in nature; environmental problems in the world 
and solutions” accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately 
and effectively when communicating with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_686 =====
686
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students become familiar with the current content by listening (to)/watching/reading it a few 
times attentively.
b) Students listen (to)/watch/read the same content, attentively and mindfully, including the use 
of target grammatical chunks presented verbally in context with the help of body language.
c) Students verbally and automatically repeat simple and meaningful clauses/sentences 
containing target grammatical chunks that they have noticed in the current content that they 
have heard/viewed/read without explicit knowledge of the rules.
d) Students act out physically the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks 
in the current content heard/viewed/read by repeating them several times without knowing, 
analysing, and thinking about their rules.
e) Students see and read the example sentences containing target grammatical chunks provided 
for language awareness carefully.
f) Students gain awareness of clauses/sentences that contain target grammatical chunks that 
are presented for the purpose of raising language awareness.
g) Students recognise the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks when 
they encounter them by seeing and/or hearing them in different contexts.
h) Students use the recognised target grammatical chunks naturally, authentically, and 
automatically in new contextual tasks and activities without analysing their rules.
i) Students produce new and meaningful verbal/written content about the current theme by 
using the target grammatical chunks in meaningful tasks without knowing and analysing their 
rules.
j) Students use the target language chunks authentically, automatically, and naturally in 
communication processes without analysing their rules in meaningful contexts.
ENG.6.7.W1.  Students can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “life 
in nature and global problems with activities in nature; environmental problems in the world 
and solutions”.
a) Students relate their pre-existing knowledge and experience used in the initial processes of 
writing-expression skills to the current content by activating them in relation with the current 
content.
b) Students understand what the writing task and its content are in relation to the current 
content correctly by making use of their pre-existing knowledge and experience as guided and 
assigned.
ENG.6.7.W2.  Students can understand the model/example for the writing task about the current content 
on “life in nature and global problems with activities in nature; environmental problems in the 
world and solutions”.
a) Students understand the components and details of the content in the provided model/sample 
which is displayed as a guide, by examining it carefully.
ENG.6.7.W3.  Students can organise a content for the assigned writing task on the current content “life in 
nature and global problems with activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and 
solutions” based on the model/example provided.
a) Students conduct preliminary research for a prepared writing situation according to the 
current content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
b) Students develop a simple draft for a prepared/or unprepared writing task about the current 
content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
c) Students organise and/or produce materials relevant to the content for a prepared/unprepared 
writing task, appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level. 

===== PDF_PAGE_687 =====
687
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.6.7.W4.  Students can individually construct/form content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “life in nature and global problems with activities in nature; environmental problems 
in the world and solutions”.
a) Students present appropriate and accurate materials for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task about the current theme according to the assigned writing type, age, and language 
level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and rules relevant to the assigned writing 
type for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language chunks accurately and appropriately 
for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task about the current content by selecting them 
according to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
d) Students express important messages in the written current content to the reader accurately 
and appropriately for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
ENG.6.7.W5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information in the new written tasks about 
the “life in nature and global problems with activities in nature; environmental problems in the 
world and solutions” to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information in the current content or similar information in a different content 
by internalising and selecting it individually and reorganising it as required and meaningfully in 
different contexts.
b) Students exchange information/ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge meaningfully with others.
ENG.6.7.W6.  Students can reflect on their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “life in nature and global problems 
with activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and solutions” in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in 
relation to the current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in relation to the 
writing-expression process about the current content with others.
c) Students produce new written products related to the current writing-expression content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities.
ENG.6.7.S1.  Students can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “life in 
nature and global problems with activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and 
solutions”.
a) Students make connections with the current content by activating their pre-existing 
knowledge and experiences that they have recalled in the listening (to)/watching/reading 
sections previously.
ENG.6.7.S2.  Students can use the model/example for producing verbal content about the current content 
on “life in nature and global problems with activities in nature; environmental problems in the 
world and solutions”.
a) Students listen (to)/watch/read the model/example for the current content with the help of 
audio/visual/written elements.
ENG.6.7.S3.  Students can organise a new verbal content on “life in nature and global problems with 
activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and solutions” by speaking accurately, 
efficiently, and authentically.

===== PDF_PAGE_688 =====
688
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students recognise what form and type of content is expected and assigned for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations based on audio/visual/written content as provided in the 
model/example.
b) Students organise the content for prepared/unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate 
and accurate way as they have heard/seen/read in the model/example.
c) Students develop a draft for prepared/unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the 
age and language level as presented in the model/sample content.
d) Students organise supplementary audio/visual/written materials for prepared/or unprepared 
speaking situations, appropriate to age and language level, as provided in the model/sample 
content.
e) Students organise the information about the current content to be presented for prepared/or 
unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate way as required.
ENG.6.7.S4.  Students can construct a new verbal content on “life in nature and global problems with 
activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and solutions” by speaking accurately, 
efficiently, and authentically.
a) Students use target pronunciation, vocabulary, language chunks, and forms of discourse 
related to the current content effectively by selecting them accurately and appropriately for 
prepared/unprepared speaking situations.
b) Students present individually prepared content in an accurate and efficient way as presented 
in the model/example for prepared speaking situations clearly, efficiently, and appropriately.
c) Students present individually prepared information in an accurate and efficient way as 
presented in the model/example for unprepared speaking situations.
d) Students express the message about the current content clearly to the reader by using all 
supplementary elements and body language in an appropriate and accurate way in context for 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.6.7.S5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information about the “life in nature and global 
problems with activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and solutions” to 
communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information presented in the current content by reorganising it appropriately, 
efficiently, individually, and verbally in different contexts.
b) Students engage in appropriate and efficient verbal communication by sharing the 
reconstructed meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.6.7.S6.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
speaking-expression process about the current content, “life in nature and global problems 
with activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and solutions” to communicate 
with other people in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully in 
relation to the speaking-expression process about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_689 =====
689
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN NATURE & GLOBAL PROBLEMS
Sub-themes: activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and solutions
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for activities in nature: An adventure, sailing, snowboarding, hiking, rafting, climbing.
Verbs: To camp, to cycle, to fish, to plant, to run, to sail, to ski, to ride, to pick.
Adverbs: High.
Vocabulary for environmental problems in the world and solutions: A danger, an effect, energy, heat, 
pollution, rubbish, smoke, rubbish.
Verb: To destroy, to increase, to prevent, to protect, to realize, to recycle, to reduce, to remove, to replace, 
to save, to solve.
Adjective: Plastic, reusable.
Preposition: Against.
Adverbs: Little, less, least, mostly.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations:  “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Simple Past Tense: (People mostly ignored the importance of recycling).
-Question tags for The Simple Past Tense (irregular verbs): (Energy consumption became less sustainable 
over the years, didn’t it?)
-Must and have to for obligation: (We must reduce plastic waste to protect marine life).
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of The Simple Past Tense: Expressing actions, events, or situations that started and finished at a 
specific time in the past.
-Use of Question tags for The Simple Past Tense (irregular verbs): Confirming information or asking for 
agreement about past actions.
-Use of “must and have to” for obligation: Expressing strong obligation or necessity, often related to rules, 
responsibilities, or urgent actions.
Target Social Language in Use: 
I’m going to go hiking, nature’s calling! 
My dad has green fingers, his garden looks amazing!
She’s wild about protecting nature!

===== PDF_PAGE_690 =====
690
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Target Phonological Sounds in Use: 
q, r, s, t, u
u: (/juː/, /ʌ/, /juː/)
Consonants: q: (/kjuː/); r: (/ɑː/(BrE.), /r/ (AmE.)); s: (/s/, /ɛs/, /z/);  t: (/tiː/, /t/)
*(Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme.)
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “life in nature and global problems” and its components such as “activities 
in nature; environmental problems in the world and solutions” is present in almost all languages. People 
who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to their 
new language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what “life in nature and 
global problems” and its components such as “activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and 
solutions” means but will not know how to say them in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in 
their existing curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, 
understand, and learn the new information more easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts:
activities, nature, activities in nature; environment, environmental problems, environmental problems in the 
world, solutions to the environmental problems
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will write a short report about an environmental problem in the 
world or in their neighbourhood. First, they will search for environmental problems and choose one of them. 
Then, they will write sentences suggesting possible solutions to this problem. The paragraphs may include 
quotes. Finally, they will read the reports in the classroom loudly. They should focus on the pronunciation and 
intonation, too. The paragraphs may be displayed on an online noticeboard. The assignment will be evaluated 
by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “life in nature and global problems” and its components 
such as “activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and solutions”. As they are lower secondary 
school students in year 6 (six), they can know what “life in nature and global problems” and its components 
such as “activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and solutions” mean in their own language 
as it is known that almost all people who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge 
(in their own language) with them and transfer it to their new language learning context. However, they may 
not know how to say these things in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing 
curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own language can help them recognise, understand, 
and learn them more easily in a foreign language, in this case English.
As they are students in year 6 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “life in 
nature and global problems” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/
or years. These grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning 
of the year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the 
current theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “life in nature and global problems” and its components such as “activities in nature; 
environmental problems in the world and solutions”. Recalling and practising with relevant vocabulary and 

===== PDF_PAGE_691 =====
691
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as a basis for 
moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “life in nature and global problems”. Therefore, 
a dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary and language grammar items from the themes in 
previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can 
be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to understand and use the 
previously learnt vocabulary and grammatical items to build their competence in the current theme. It can 
be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new 
vocabulary and grammatical items in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics 
throughout these practices).
Establishing Links
Students can recall the current (theme) concept of “life in nature and global problems” and its components 
such as “activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and solutions” by remembering their pre-
existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make 
links with the current activities in the current theme in English without translating anything until they start 
learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
various materials such as short scene from a film, series, a part from a story, a poster etc. which is appropriate 
to the age, level, and pedagogy could be used before the main teaching/learning flow of the class begins. 
They would give a general idea of the theme. Students are facilitated with the relevant materials through 
various activities.  When they have finished working on it, the teacher asks them in English if they understood 
what it was about. For checking their understanding, she/he can design several activities. For instance, they 
can write a related word that they know in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways can be tried.
The teacher asks them to wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the digital introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any 
further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme  “life in nature and global problems ‘’ in the classroom, to prepare the 
students emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be 
done as an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for 
their well-being. This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/
chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote/a very short 
story, watching a pantomime/cartoon story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and 
does not require any knowledge of English  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4). 
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills  (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around “life in nature and global problems ‘’ and sub-themes “activities in 
nature; environmental problems in the world and solutions”, allowing students to build background knowledge 
through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a 
meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although 
they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in 
a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development 
and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a balanced integration of all the 
skills, where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) 
and respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their vocabulary, 
grammar and phonological selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_692 =====
692
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.7.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: Having seen a visual about and having guessed 
the topic of “life in nature and global problems ‘’ during the background recall session, students can have a 
vision of the current theme as a general concept in the current  (new) theme  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, V5.2, V5.3, 
V18.3,LS1, LS4, CS2.11, CS2.16.2) . So, a further concept check with listening/watching for gist activities 
including more guessing games using clues from some pictures, realia, short video clips etc. help them 
prepare for the current theme  (CS2.6, CS2.8).  For each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as 
the main context of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through the theme to cover target 
pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole 
theme  (CS2.14).  It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. The 
teacher asks them whether their guesses during the background recall session were correct and also what 
they think the introductory digital story that they are going to watch could be about  (CS2.8).  As they have 
already seen a scene from a film about the theme and the pictures, realia, etc. they can easily answer what 
the current theme will be about and that their guesses were true   ( D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.3, 
V3.4, V5.2, V5.3, V18.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17). 
ENG6.7.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING: The teacher asks the students to 
watch the introductory digital story carefully, recalling the work done with visuals  (the scene from a film, 
pictures, realia, or video clips about the theme shown earlier)   (CS2.11) .  Students watch the introductory 
digital story to consolidate the identification of the theme “life in nature and global problems ‘’ in it as a whole  
(CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that the students can understand the theme holistically  
(D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.3, V3.4, V5.2, V5.3, V18.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.14,CS2.16.2). 
ENG6.7.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw students’ attention to the 
content, some realia brought into the classroom by the teacher could be used  (V5.2, V5.3, V18.3) .  The 
teacher could show the corresponding objects to the students when the corresponding vocabulary for the 
main components of the theme “life in nature and global problems ‘’ is mentioned in the introductory digital 
story, without stopping the video while the students watch the story  (CS2.6) .  When they have watched 
the whole story, the teacher could show the realia items on the table and ask questions with two options  
(CS2.5).  As one of the words is from the previous themes, students could hear, understand, recognise and 
learn the  (new) target vocabulary for each main component of the theme easily  (CS2.1).  In this way, the 
teacher could engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the components 
of the theme, and that they have understood each realia item is about one component  (CS2.8).  Further 
activities and games can be played at this stage to reinforce the general meaning of the theme through its 
main components  (D1.1, D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4). 
To check whether the students understand the general topic of the theme “life in nature and global problems‘’ 
and remember the sequence of the scenes of the introductory digital story, the teacher shows an organiser 
with the mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the students to look at the 
images/pictures of the scenes for a while  (CS2.3).  She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs in 
their seats with the mixed paper pictures she/he has already given to the students  (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, 
LS1, LS4, LS6 ). When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for the scenes of the story, the teacher 
asks the students to take turns or volunteer to sort the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board  (or the 
pictures on the blackboard)  (SELS1.2, CS2.6, CS2.10) .  This will help the students to organise the story as 
a whole so that they can identify the main theme and the components of the theme from their memories  
(D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, V16.3, V20.4, CS2.12). 

===== PDF_PAGE_693 =====
693
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.7.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/ W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process   (SELS1.3, V3.4) . Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3,V12.1, 
LS5, LS6).  The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design  (V10.3). 
ENG6.7.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: To practise pronunciation of the new target words, word groups, 
language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “life in nature and global problems‘’ and 
the words and/or word groups for the sub-themes “activities in nature; environmental problems in the world 
and solutions”, the teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the whole or some extracts from the 
introductory digital story by noticing how words are pronounced (V3.3, V5.2, V5.3, V18.3, LS4, CS2.6).  She/
He asks them to repeat the word aloud when she/he stops the video for a word and says it. The teacher then 
asks the students to listen and repeat the same words aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to 
the recordings that she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes  (LS2, CS2.16.3) . 
The teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as showing the picture of the target word 
to the students to say the word or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the 
recording, and then both  (CS2.8).  To help the students pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks 
them to repeat each target word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in 
large groups, then in small groups and then again as volunteers  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V4.2, V20.4, 
LS1, CS2.14). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Practice of pronunciation could be done with different 
forms of TPR, gamification and drama activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words/word groups
for the sub-themes “activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and solutions”  the students 
listen  (CS2.9); then the teacher says the target words/word groups and acts them out, the students repeat 
after her/him  (SELS2.1, CS2.14).  Then the teacher and the students say the target words/word groups and 
act them out together at the same time. Then the teacher says the words/word groups and acts them out. 
These activities can be done through the actions for the sub-themes  (D2.3, D2.5, V3.3, V5.2, V5.3, V18.3). As 
a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, sadly, angrily, etc. using different tones 
of voice  (SELS2.3, CS2.8, CS2.11).  They also practise for the target social language chunks using the same 
or similar techniques. During the repetitions, they point to relevant pictures that the teacher has placed in 
different places in the classroom  (CS2.12).  Some action sequences are also created in which the students 
can practise the social language in a fun way by repeating, pointing, miming, and acting out in several 
games  (SELS2.1, V7.2, LS5, LS6, LS9) . The teacher facilitates some activities with dialogues and games 
in which students can practice the target pronunciation by selecting and using them accurately, naturally, 
and authentically  (CS3.1).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as shadow reading, 
bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound drills  (SELS2.2).  
The target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are practised through them  
(CS2.13).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, D2.5, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4).  

===== PDF_PAGE_694 =====
694
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.7.R1
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS: The teacher facilitates reading and writing 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise 
techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the 
theme in various forms and amounts. Reading is done in two ways in the theme by using the written version 
of the introductory digital story and additional reading texts in reading sections of the instructional material 
to be used  (V3.2, LS2, LS4) .  Various reading styles including silent reading, speed reading, jigsaw reading 
and basic reading techniques including skimming, scanning, and reading for details during pre-reading, 
while-reading and post-reading phases are used in the theme  (V3.4, LS1, CS2.3, CS2.6) . The ultimate aim 
of reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills and 
critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend and talk/write about the content in a meaningful and 
communicative way  (V3.3, V7.2, LS5, CS3.3). For the initial stage of reading, the teacher asks the students 
to look at the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) 
surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory story or a new text in the reading section of 
the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the conceptual meanings they already have about 
the theme  (CS2.8).  At this stage, the teacher could ask the students to read the title of the theme and ask 
the students which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title  (SELS1.1, 
CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new words or the words they do not know. 
She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity by using the words they know and that there is time 
to work on the new words of the new theme later  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, CS2.10, CS2.12). 
ENG6.7.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING : Students go on with a scanning activity to find 
out the most important details of the introductory digital story and/or a new text in the reading section which 
is organised to help students to know more about the reading content  (CS2.6, CS2.7).  In this way they could 
be able to recognise the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or 
tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned  (quickly read) in the story  (CS2.4).  By doing so, they 
will be able to understand the story/text in general using the main elements  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, V3.4, LS1). 
ENG6.7.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Then the teacher asks the students to do a jigsaw reading activity, 
so she/he shows the written version of the introductory digital story or the text in the reading section on the 
blackboard/Smart Board  (or in any other teaching material).  She/He asks the students to work in pairs to 
share the text  (SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the text and the second peer reads the other half 
of the text in a given time  (CS2.6).  They are then asked to share what they have understood from their part 
with their peer, also in a given time. In this way, they talk about the whole story after reading it silently, in the 
jigsaw reading style  (D2.4, D3.6, V3.4, V4.2, V16.2, LS1, LS6,CS2.8, CS2.9) .  Some speed-reading activities 
can be used to develop students’ reading and comprehension skills. These activities can be evaluated as 
explained in the item  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After 
sharing their parts, students proceed with the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical 
chunks, and semantic meaning relatively with the help of the teacher  (CS2.14).  For dealing with the semantic 
meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, 
open-ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1).  From display to communicative open-ended, various 
types of questions are used to understand the meaning of the text  (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, CS2.6).  During this 
process students work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings  (D3.2, D3.7, V3.3, 
V7.2, V20.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 

===== PDF_PAGE_695 =====
695
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.7.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process  (SELS1.3).  Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive   (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates 
different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design   (D2.3, D3.5, 
V4.2, V6.2, V10.3, V12.1, LS1, LS6). 
ENG6.7.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY : At this stage, students remember what the 
theme is about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/ 
watching, and pre-reading sessions  (SELS1.1).  As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal with the 
main components and target vocabulary of the theme  (V3.2, LS1). 
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY : A scanning activity to find out the main details of the 
introductory digital story  (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help students to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some important pictures, words or events about the main components 
of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen 
and scanned  (quickly read) in the story. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general 
by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items  (D3.2, D3.6, LS1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then the students read the written version of the digital story again silently,  
(or the reading text in the reading section), to check whether they know any of the target vocabulary items 
about the theme  (V5.2, V5.3, V18.3, CS2.8). They underline the words whose meaning they do not know while 
reading silently  (CS2.17).  Students say these words when they finish reading and the teacher writes these 
words on the Smart Board/blackboard/ white board as they say them. The teacher writes only the target 
words on the Smart Board/blackboard as active words that the students have said. She/He quickly deals 
with the non-target passive vocabulary items by using pictures, mimics, gestures, imitations, examples, 
etc. But she/he takes time to facilitate the teaching of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.2, V3.3, V3.4, LS2, 
LS4,CS2.4, CS2.5, CS2.7). 
To introduce and practise the meanings of the target vocabulary related to the theme, that the students do 
not know, the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story  (or the video of the reading 
text if there is one) again. From the beginning, whenever a target item is mentioned, the teacher stops the 
video and asks several questions in the form of two options, one of which is a word from the previous themes 
that they already know  (V5.2, V5.3, V18.3, CS2.16.1, CS2.6). By guessing what they are, the students hear 
the English equivalents of the words for the theme and they answer as a whole class in chorus. In this way, 
they are introduced to the meanings of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6,D3.7, CS2.10).  This is conducted in the 
form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (SELS2.1)  (7),  (8), and  (9) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.   (V3.3, V3.4, V5.2, V5.3, V18.3, 
LS1,LS2, LS4).  After having watched the introductory digital story, the teacher shows some pictures for 
the sub-themes, on the walls as clues and says the words aloud several times in sentences by pointing to 
the pictures and the students repeat after her/him  (D2.3, V5.2, V5.3, V18.3 CS2.6, CS2.11). In this way, the 
main vocabulary items of the theme are introduced to the students in English as described in item (3) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (V5.2, V5.3, V18.3). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY : The teacher can prepare an activity using the Web 2.0 
programme with images/pictures, and symbolic images for some categories about the components of the 
theme “life in nature and global problems‘’. She/He also prepares mixed images/pictures for target vocabulary 

===== PDF_PAGE_696 =====
696
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
items for the activities which can be done in relation to the components. She/He asks the students to look 
at the mixed pile of images/pictures of the main components of the theme on the Smart Board screen and 
scan them for a while to remember them  (V5.2, V5.3, V18.3, CS2.4) . She/He explains to the students that 
the items will be placed under the correct category, but first she/he gives the students the cut-out pictures 
of the activities and a large sheet of paper with the categories written on it and the cut-out pictures will be 
placed under each category correctly  (V3.3, L2, LS4, CS2.5) . The teacher asks them to work in pairs and 
place the cut-out pictures in the right category and ask each other some questions about the theme  (D3.2, 
D3.8, SELS2.2, V5.2, V5.3, V18.3). When the students have finished working with the cut-out pictures and 
asking and answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the 
Smart Board and drag the corresponding images/pictures under the right category on the screen  (SELS1.2, 
V3.4, V20.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the main concept and its 
components are consolidated through categorisation. This activity can be done with real pictures on the 
white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology. The teacher asks the students to copy the words 
next to the pictures they have pasted or drawn in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange 
their picture dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling  (D3.2, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, 
V4.3, V6.2, LS9). To consolidate the meaning, selection, and use of the new target vocabulary items, the 
teacher could organise activities and tasks using pictures, flashcards, sounds, realia, and any other materials 
to play games such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, Wordscapes, Scrabble, Pictionary, 
Letter Scramble, Acronyms, Charades etc. Games could be adapted according to the teacher’s objectives  
(pronunciation, spelling, meaning, selection, use etc.), age, interests and language level of the students  
(CS2.13).  Students can be asked to create their own games to use the target vocabulary items in context  
(D2.5, D.3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V4.2, V4.4, V7.2, V5.2, V5.3,V18.3 LS9, CS2.20).  Students’ learning can be 
checked as described in items  (3), and  (4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.
ENG6.7.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS : To draw the students’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the them e “life in nature and global problems‘’, the introductory digital story or an extract from 
it played so that the students can notice the target language chunks  (D3.2, CS2.2).  While watching the 
introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. 
She/He imitates the action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the students to do the 
same  (V3.2, LS2, CS2.14) . She/He could hold up large pictures corresponding to the chunks when they 
are mentioned in the digital story to draw the students’ attention. The sentences with the target chunks 
are also written and placed on the Smart Board/blackboard/ whiteboard. The teacher also points to these 
sentences while pointing to the scenes in the story where they appear. There is no analysis or teaching of 
grammatical structures at this stage. Students can automatically and naturally identify the use of the target 
language chunks in the current context created in the introductory digital story without working on any rules 
or structures  (SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  To check the students’ identification of 
the target language chunks, after the students have finished watching the introductory digital story, the 
teacher asks them to read the sentences with the target language chunks written by the teacher on the 
Smart Board /blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to find the same or similar sentences in the written 
version of the introductory digital story or another text that is shown on the Smart Board  (D3.2, SELS3.2, 
V3.3). She/He also asks them to find the same or similar sentences with these chunks which are given in 
different types of tables prepared by the teacher  (CS2.7).  These tables do not include any explanations of 
grammatical rules, explanations, or formulas, and they only contain example sentences with target chunks 
in which important words with the target grammar are written in bold or different colours to attract students’ 
attention. The teacher asks them to look at the words in bold or in different colours and asks students to 
examine them  (CS2.9).  Then the teacher asks the students to copy these sentences with target chunks 
written in bold or different colours into their notebooks. The teacher asks the students to make very similar 
sentences using the target words and asks them to share their sentences with each other in pairs, and then 

===== PDF_PAGE_697 =====
697
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
with the class  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, D3.2, V4.2, CS2.13,CS2.14, CS2.16.1, CS2.16.2). Both the teacher and the 
class members give feedback to the students as they say their sentences  (CS2.19).  The teacher gives all 
students a checklist with simple symbols to evaluate each other’s work as explained in the items  (5) and  (6) 
in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, LS6). 
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate students’ further practice with the target 
language chunks in the theme “life in nature and global problems ‘’, the teacher shows some other sentences 
with these chunks in another context such as a short story, a short paragraph, and a short dialogue etc. 
and asks students to find the sentences with the target chunks in them and asks if they understand them  
(SELS3.2, V3.3, V5.2, V5.3, V18.3,CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.8). She/He gives some written activities and exercises 
to practise the target chunks in context. She/He also facilitates more fun activities and as described in 
items  (5),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. To 
consolidate the target language chunks, the teacher organises different fun activity and game bundles that 
the students can practise and consolidate them  (CS2.13) where their learning can be checked as described 
in item  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (D2.5, V4.4). 
ENG6.7.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION : Practising through writing: Writing activities 
help students  to  produce  and  display  meaningful  written  language  for  their  personal  expression  and 
communication with others, by using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and 
the social language in this theme, as in other themes (V3.2, V5.2, V5.3, V18.3). 
ENG6.7.W2.
RECOGNISING THE MODEL:  Initially, students produce very limited and short pieces of writing such as 
sentences to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after hearing 
and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “life in nature and global problems ‘’ . 
They practise the language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat or simply explain 
what they hear and see in context and what they are asked to do. They are provided a written model/example 
to copy to be able to notice significant points and elements in it  (SELS3.1).  While copying a short model 
writing, they become aware of the aspects such as the use of words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling 
and so on  (D3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). 
ENG6.7.W3.
CREATING THE WRITING CONTENT: Controlled writing of words and sentences turns to short paragraphs in 
a process writing manner with the support of the teacher’s feedback in the theme. This process is expanded 
and supported by several practical activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/ 
pantomime/video stories, dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, 
etc. to practise further by writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (D1.3, D3.1, SELS3.2,V3.4, V4.4, V7.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG6.7.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
projects, scripts for plays, diaries/journals, blogs, very short film scenarios, etc. to express their ideas, 
thoughts, and feelings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be contextual, practical, 

===== PDF_PAGE_698 =====
698
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests and language level  (V3.4, V7.2,V9.3, V12.1, LS1, 
LS4, LS9).  
ENG6.7.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students  interact  and  communicate 
with peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the language including the target words, 
language chunks, and the social language for the theme in their writing  (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, 
V5.2, V5.3, V18.3, LS9, CS2.20) . AI- based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students 
access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home in 
a variety of ways  (D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3,V7.2, LS2, CS2.20). These activities are evaluated as described in 
items  (11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles  for  the  Implementation  of  the  English  Curriculum.
ENG6.7.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (D1.5, SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, 
LS1, LS6). 
ENG6.7.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING: The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from the 
first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance students’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language expressions of the theme (V3.2, 
V3.4, V5.2, V5.3, V18.3). 
ENG6.7.S2
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL: In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, students 
recognise how the language with the target language items is used  (CS2.6).  They practise the language in a 
controlled way, by telling, repeating, explaining what they hear and see in the context  (D1.3, D3.2, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.4). 
ENG6.7.S3
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT : In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues etc. as new opportunities for the students to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc  (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13). 
ENG6.7.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS:  Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products 
related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact 
with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, 

===== PDF_PAGE_699 =====
699
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2,V5.2, V5.3, 
V18.3, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings   
(D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, V7.2,LS2, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG6.7.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students communicate with each other 
by seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme “life in nature and global problems‘’ in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  
(SELS2.3, CS2.20).  Picture strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation 
and revision  (V3.4, V4.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14).  These new contents created are contextual, 
practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. Storification 
and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used together with other further speaking 
practice throughout the theme. Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact and to 
communicate with peers and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the 
target words, language grammar in use, and the social language for the theme and its components such 
as “activities in nature; environmental problems in the world and solutions”  (V3.4, V4.2, V5.2, V5.3, V18.3 
LS4, CS3.1, CS2.20) .  AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to 
authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through 
recordings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.3, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).  These are evaluated as described in items  (7),  (8),  
(9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Then they can 
expand their language use and practise by communicating with others.
ENG6.7.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole speaking-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different activities for 
creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, LS1, LS6). 
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To practise strong obligations in real-life urgent situations in English by encouraging teamwork, 
problem-solving and critical thinking.
Activity 1: Mission: Rescue Operations
The teacher divides students into small teams or pairs, depending on the number of students in class and 
tells them that they are members of an emergency response team, and their job is to manage various urgent 
situations that require quick thinking and strict rules. Their task is to come up with the actions they must 
take to handle the situations. She/He assigns each group different mission scenarios that are urgent and 
require critical thinking. She/He provides them with scenario cards or describes a situation for them to react 
to. Scenario Examples: Scenario 1: A fire has broken out in a building. What must the people inside do? 
What must the fire fighters do?; Scenario 2: A group of students is lost in the mountains. What must they 
do to survive? What must the rescue team do to find them?; Scenario 3: A school bus has broken down on 
a busy road. What must the driver do? What do the students need to do for safety?; Scenario 4: There is a 
leak in a chemical plant. What must the workers do? What must be done immediately to avoid a disaster? In 

===== PDF_PAGE_700 =====
700
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
their groups, students discuss the steps they must take in their situation. After the discussion, each group 
presents their scenario and explains what must be done to resolve the situation. After each presentation, 
she/he encourages the rest of the class to ask questions and to give feedback. For example, “What must the 
rescue team do first?”, “Why must you wear protective gear?” or “What else do you have to prepare?”. She/
He encourages students to reflect on the use of target grammar. Students reflect on their thoughts and 
feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To practise strong obligations in real-life urgent situations in English by encouraging teamwork, 
problem-solving and critical thinking.
Activity 1: Mission: Rescue Operations
The teacher divides students into small teams or pairs, depending on the number of students in class and 
tells them that they are members of an emergency response team, and their job is to manage various urgent 
situations that require quick thinking and strict rules. Their task is to come up with the actions they must 
take to handle the situations. She/He assigns each group different mission scenarios that are urgent and 
require critical thinking. She/He provides them with scenario cards or describes a situation for them to react 
to. Scenario Examples: Scenario 1: A fire has broken out in a building. What must the people inside do? What 
must the firefighters do?; Scenario 2: A group of students is lost in the mountains. What must they do to 
survive? What must the rescue team do to find them?; Scenario 3: A school bus has broken down on a busy 
road. What must the driver do? What do the students need to do for safety?; Scenario 4: There is a leak in 
a chemical plant. What must the workers do? What must be done immediately to avoid a disaster? In their 
groups, students discuss the steps they must take in their situation. The teacher provides a list of key verbs 
and phrases (e.g., “call, stay calm, evacuate, contact, protect, warn, help”). She also offers sentence starters 
to help them form responses like, “We must __________”, “They need to __________”, “You have to __________”. 
In their groups, students discuss the steps they must take in their situation. After the discussion, each group 
presents their scenario and explains what must be done to resolve the situation. After each presentation, 
she/he asks students to create a “responsibility ladder” where they list the actions or tasks in their scenario 
from most urgent (what must be done immediately) to least urgent (what must be done next). Each group 
discusses their list and she/he encourages students to reflect on the use of target grammar. Students 
reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_701 =====
701
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 8: LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE & FUTURE
Sub-themes: Planets and the Earth as a planet; life on 
Earth in the future
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in the universe and future” and 
covers the sub-themes of “planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in 
the future”. These components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning 
process through the contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical 
structures, phonological features, and social language expressions. The 
learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, 
and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ developmental 
level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to 
equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively 
use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 10 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, 
D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3.Creativity, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8.Questioning
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V19. Patriotism, V20. 
Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_702 =====
702
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Physical Education and Sports, Visual Arts, 
Music, Information Technologies and Software
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information 
Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. 
Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based 
Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, 
CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing Skill, CS2.20. 
Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_703 =====
703
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 6 is structured based on semi-holistic/semi-inductive approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.6.8.L1.  Students can get ready for the listening/watching-comprehension process for the current 
content on “life in the universe and future with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth 
in the future” carefully.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience related to the current theme 
and content by recalling their background knowledge imaginatively in her/his own language 
without speaking it.
b) Students identify significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge and 
experiences and the clues to the current content without translation.
c) Students make predictions about the current content on “life in the universe and future” by 
using the relationships that they recognised accurately by looking at the provided realia, 
pictures, and context.
d) Students make predictions about the current content based on the surrounding audio/visual 
elements in relation to the current theme.
ENG.6.8.L2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “life in the universe and future 
with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” together through significant 
details and main components while listening/watching it.
a) Students comprehend the topic of the current content by listening (to)/watching it as a whole.
b) Students recognise the significant details and components within the whole current content 
by listening (to) and watching it again in a careful manner.
ENG.6.8.L3.  Students can make meaning of/derive meaning from the current content on “life in the 
universe and future with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” through 
significant details by listening/watching it carefully.
a) Students check any initial predictions related to the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between self-predictions and clues provided as visuals surrounding the current 
content.
b) Students make important and necessary classifications in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
c) Students make important and necessary comparisons in the current content that help them 
to understand it better with details.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content with the help of classifications and comparisons made 
earlier.
e) Students make significant inferences that contribute to the understanding of the meaning of 
the generally perceived current content.
f) Students construct the meaning of the current content in detail through the classifications/
comparisons/inferences made earlier in relation to it.
g) Students internalise the current content in an individualised and appropriate way according to 
age and language level.
ENG.6.8.L4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experience, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully 
about the whole listening/watching-comprehension process in relation to the current content 
on “life in the universe and future with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the 
future”.

===== PDF_PAGE_704 =====
704
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content.
b) Students convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the listening/watching-comprehension process about the current 
content by sharing them with others.
ENG.6.8.P1.  Students can select and use the target phonological elements of the current content about 
“life in the universe and future with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” 
accurately, authentically, and naturally through spontaneous decision-making processes and 
use it in an appropriate and effective way when communicating with others.
a) Students listen to the current content by paying attention to the target phonological aspects 
including pronunciation and intonation of utterances.
b) Students reinforce the target phonological elements by repeating them after the source 
several times as a whole class, in groups and individually.
c) Students recognise the target phonological elements of the current content when they are 
heard in different contexts.
d) Students recognise target phonological elements specific to the current content when they 
are heard in different contexts and use them accurately, authentically, and naturally through 
spontaneous decision-making processes.
e) Students use the target theme-specific phonological elements of the current content 
appropriately, spontaneously and effectively when communicating with others.
ENG.6.8.R1.  Students can get ready for the reading-comprehension process about the current content 
on “life in the universe and future with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the 
future”. 
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and past experiences related to the current 
theme and content efficiently.
b) Students recognise significant relationships between their pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to the current content.
c) Students make significant preliminary predictions about the current content based on 
recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring the audio-visual 
clues surrounding it.
ENG.6.8.R2.  Students can bring information about the current content on “life in the universe and future 
with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” through skimming (looking 
quickly at) the audio-visual elements and reading the content very quickly.
a) Students review the current content by looking at the surrounding audio/visual materials to 
identify what it is about in general through skimming.
b) Students read the current content to scan the major components silently and quickly with the 
help of the clues provided. 
c) Students carefully read the current content silently and carefully to find significant details and 
components belonging to the theme.
ENG.6.8.R3.  Students can make meaning of / derive meaning from the current content about “life in the 
universe and future with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” by 
reading it carefully.
a) Students carefully check the current content in detail for the accuracy of initial and detailed 
predictions that are made earlier. 

===== PDF_PAGE_705 =====
705
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students classify the significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
c) Students compare significant elements of the current content that contribute to the 
perception of the content in a meaningful way.
d) Students recognise significant horizontal/vertical/spiral relationships within the current 
content that contribute to the perception of the content in a meaningful way.
e) Students make meaningful inferences from the information in the current content by 
examining it carefully.
f) Students internalise the information in the current content in an individualised and appropriate 
way according to age and language level.
ENG.6.8.R4.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
reading-comprehension process about the current content, “life in the universe and future 
with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” in relation to themselves or 
others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have 
been carefully examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process.
b) Students convey the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that have been carefully 
examined in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process by sharing 
them with others.
c) Students produce new products related to the current reading-comprehension content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities. 
ENG.6.8.V1.  Students can select and use the target vocabulary of the current content about “life in 
the universe and future with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” 
accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively 
when communicating with others.
a) Students guess the main topic of the current content from the audio/visual/written elements 
(e.g. sound, voices, scenes, written words) in the contextual material by listening (to)/watching/
reading it several times for recognition.
b) Students recognise sub-themes/key components of the target words to which they belong in 
the current content by scanning.
c) Students recognise the target words related to the main components of the current content 
with the help of the audio/visual/written elements and other clues.
d) Students repeat aloud the relevant target key components and target vocabulary in the 
current content with the whole class, in groups, and then individually together with or after 
listening (to)/watching/reading the source material.
e) Students recognise the use of target words and expressions in the current content by making 
various guesses with the help of supplementary elements.
f) Students make context-appropriate selections automatically by associating target words 
with their pre-existing conceptual meanings in the mind without analysing their contextual 
meaning in detail. 
g) Students use the target words spontaneously and appropriately in different communicative 
contexts by being aware of their differences when communicating with others.
ENG.6.8.G1.  Students can select and use the target grammatical elements of the current content about 
“life in the universe and future with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” 
accurately, authentically, spontaneously, and naturally and use it appropriately and effectively 
when communicating with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_706 =====
706
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students become familiar with the current content by listening (to)/watching/reading it a few 
times attentively.
b) Students listen (to)/watch/read the same content, attentively and mindfully, including the use 
of target grammatical chunks presented verbally in context with the help of body language.
c) Students verbally and automatically repeat simple and meaningful clauses/sentences 
containing target grammatical chunks that they have noticed in the current content that they 
have heard/viewed/read without explicit knowledge of the rules.
d) Students act out physically the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks 
in the current content heard/viewed/read by repeating them several times without knowing, 
analysing, and thinking about their rules.
e) Students see and read the example sentences containing target grammatical chunks provided 
for language awareness carefully.
f) Students gain awareness of clauses/sentences that contain target grammatical chunks that 
are presented for the purpose of raising language awareness.
g) Students recognise the clauses/sentences containing the target grammatical chunks when 
they encounter them by seeing and/or hearing them in different contexts.
h) Students use the recognised target grammatical chunks naturally, authentically, and 
automatically in new contextual tasks and activities without analysing their rules.
i) Students produce new and meaningful verbal/written content about the current theme by 
using the target grammatical chunks in meaningful tasks without knowing and analysing their 
rules.
j) Students use the target language chunks authentically, automatically, and naturally in 
communication processes without analysing their rules in meaningful contexts.
ENG.6.8.W1.  Students can get ready for the writing-expression process about the current content on “life 
in the universe and future with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future”.
a) Students relate their pre-existing knowledge and experience used in the initial processes of 
writing-expression skills to the current content by activating them in relation with the current 
content.
b) Students understand what the writing task and its content are in relation to the current 
content correctly by making use of their pre-existing knowledge and experience as guided and 
assigned.
ENG.6.8.W2.  Students can understand the model/example for the writing task about the current content 
on “life in the universe and future with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the 
future”.
a) Students understand the components and details of the content in the provided model/sample 
which is displayed as a guide, by examining it carefully.
ENG.6.8.W3.  Students can organise a content for the assigned writing task on the current content “life 
in the universe and future with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” 
based on the model/example provided.
a) Students conduct preliminary research for a prepared writing situation according to the 
current content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
b) Students develop a simple draft for a prepared/or unprepared writing task about the current 
content appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
c) Students organise and/or produce materials relevant to the content for a prepared/unprepared 
writing task, appropriate to the assigned writing type, age, and language level. 

===== PDF_PAGE_707 =====
707
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.6.8.W4.  Students can individually construct/form content for the assigned writing task on the current 
content “life in the universe and future with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in 
the future”.
a) Students present appropriate and accurate materials for a prepared and/or unprepared 
writing task about the current theme according to the assigned writing type, age, and language 
level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and rules relevant to the assigned writing 
type for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language chunks accurately and appropriately 
for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task about the current content by selecting them 
according to the assigned writing type, age, and language level.
d) Students express important messages in the written current content to the reader accurately 
and appropriately for a prepared and/or unprepared writing task.
ENG.6.8.W5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information in the new written tasks about 
the “life in the universe and future with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the 
future” to communicate with other people.
a) Students use the information in the current content or similar information in a different content 
by internalising and selecting it individually and reorganising it as required and meaningfully in 
different contexts.
b) Students exchange information/ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge meaningfully with others.
ENG.6.8.W6.  Students can reflect on their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
writing-expression process about the current content, “life in the universe and future with 
planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” in relation to themselves or 
others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in 
relation to the current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings reviewed in relation to the 
writing-expression process about the current content with others.
c) Students produce new written products related to the current writing-expression content and 
process by revising their personal work carefully after participating in reflective activities.
ENG.6.8.S1.  Students can get ready for speaking-expression process about the current content on “life in 
the universe and future with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future”.
a) Students make connections with the current content by activating their pre-existing 
knowledge and experiences that they have recalled in the listening (to)/watching/reading 
sections previously.
ENG.6.8.S2.  Students can use the model/example for producing verbal content about the current content 
on “life in the universe and future with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the 
future”.
a) Students listen (to)/watch/read the model/example for the current content with the help of 
audio/visual/written elements.
ENG.6.8.S3.  Students can organise a new verbal content on “life in the universe and future with planets 
and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and 
authentically.
a) Students recognise what form and type of content is expected and assigned for prepared/
unprepared speaking situations based on audio/visual/written content as provided in the 
model/example.

===== PDF_PAGE_708 =====
708
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students organise the content for prepared/unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate 
and accurate way as they have heard/seen/read in the model/example.
c) Students develop a draft for prepared/unprepared speaking situations, appropriate to the 
age and language level as presented in the model/sample content.
d) Students organise supplementary audio/visual/written materials for prepared/or unprepared 
speaking situations, appropriate to age and language level, as provided in the model/sample 
content.
e) Students organise the information about the current content to be presented for prepared/or 
unprepared speaking situations in an appropriate way as required.
ENG.6.8.S4.  Students can construct a new verbal content on “life in the universe and future with planets 
and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” by speaking accurately, efficiently, and 
authentically.
a) Students use target pronunciation, vocabulary, language chunks, and forms of discourse 
related to the current content effectively by selecting them accurately and appropriately for 
prepared/unprepared speaking situations.
b) Students present individually prepared content in an accurate and efficient way as presented 
in the model/example for prepared speaking situations clearly, efficiently, and appropriately.
c) Students present individually prepared information in an accurate and efficient way as 
presented in the model/example for unprepared speaking situations.
d) Students express the message about the current content clearly to the reader by using all 
supplementary elements and body language in an appropriate and accurate way in context for 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.6.8.S5.  Students can reorganise (reconstruct) and use information about the “life in the universe and 
future with planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” to communicate with 
other people.
a) Students use the information presented in the current content by reorganising it appropriately, 
efficiently, individually, and verbally in different contexts.
b) Students engage in appropriate and efficient verbal communication by sharing the 
reconstructed meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.6.8.S6.  Students can convey their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings related to the 
speaking-expression process about the current content, “life in the universe and future with 
planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” to communicate with other people 
in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined 
carefully in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings examined carefully in 
relation to the speaking-expression process about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_709 =====
709
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE & FUTURE
Sub-themes: planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for planets and the Earth as a planet: 
Nouns: Moon, Sun, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, atmosphere, nature, light, land, 
orbit.
Vocabulary for extreme weather conditions: 
Nouns: A storm, a thunder, a lightning, a flood, a draught, a storm, a tornado, a thunderstorm, a blizzard, a 
hurricane.
Adjectives: Close, bright, far, large, freezing, stormy.
Phrases: Extreme weather conditions.
Adverbs: Extremely.
Vocabulary for life on Earth in the future: 
Nouns: An experience, an expert, a factory, a goal, knowledge, peace, population, a possibility, a purpose, a 
source, technology, development, distance.
Verb: To exist, to expect, to hope, to invent, to predict, to suppose, to run out, to compose of.
Adjective: Alive, flying, following, visible.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations:  “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Be going to Future Tense: (Scientists are going to build new space stations to study planets outside our 
solar system).
-The Simple Future Tense (prediction): (I think new planets will have conditions suitable for life).
-Question tags for future tenses: (The Earth will become warmer if we don’t act quickly, won’t it?)
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of “Be Going to Future” Tense: Expressing future plans, intentions, or something that is likely to happen 
based on present evidence.
-Use of the Simple Future Tense (prediction): Expressing predictions about what might happen in the future.
-Question tags for future tenses: Confirming information or asking for agreement in a sentence about the 
future.
Target Social Language in Use:
Is there a bright future ahead with new technologies? 
We need to take care of our green planet! The new eco-cities give us a glimpse of future living! 
Tomorrow’s world will be different with new technologies! 

===== PDF_PAGE_710 =====
710
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
v, w, x, y, z
Consonants:  v: (/viː/, /v/); w: (/w/); x: (/ɛks/, /ks/, /gz/); y: (/waɪ//waɪ//waɪ/,  /j/, /ɪ/, /iː/); z: /zed/ (BrE.), /ziː/ 
(AmE.), /z/)
*(Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme).
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “life in the universe and future” and its components such as “planets and 
the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” is present in almost all languages. People who start to 
learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to their new language 
learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what “life in the universe and future” and 
its components such as “planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” means but will not 
know how to say them in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. 
However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the 
new information more easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts
Planets,  the Earth, the Earth as a planet; life on Earth, life on Earth in the future
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will prepare a comic strip about the universe and imagine how life on 
Earth might change. First, they will learn about the planets in our solar system and what makes Earth unique. 
Then they will create a fun and creative comic strip with 6-8 panels showing their ideas about future life on 
Earth or other planets. In their comic strip, they can include new technologies, futuristic transportation, cool 
inventions, and how people interact with nature. They should use drawings, captions, and dialogue to tell the 
story. They can use Web 2.0 tools. The assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, 
and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “life in the universe and future” and its components such 
as “planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future”. As they are lower secondary school students 
in year 6 (six), they can know what “life in the universe and future” and its components such as “planets and 
the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all 
people who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with 
them and transfer it to their new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these 
things in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this 
existing knowledge in their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily 
in a foreign language, in this case English.
As they are students in year 6 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “life 
in the universe and future” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or 
years. These grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning 
of the year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the 
current theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “life in the universe and future” and its components such as “planets and the Earth 
as a planet; life on Earth in the future”. Recalling and practising with relevant vocabulary and grammatical 
items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as a basis for moving on and 

===== PDF_PAGE_711 =====
711
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
learning the current content on the concept of “life in the universe and future”. Therefore, a dialogue game 
can be played to revise all vocabulary and language chunks from the previous themes in previous years by 
giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by 
seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to understand and use the previously learnt 
vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise 
or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the 
current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics throughout these practices).
Establishing Links
Students can recall the current (theme) concept of “life in the universe and future” and its components 
such as “planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” by remembering their pre-existing 
background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with the 
current activities in the current theme in English without translating anything until they start learning the 
target words in the current (new) concept in English.  
To remind them of the pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
various materials such as short scene from a film, series, a part from a story, a poster etc. which is appropriate 
to the age, level, and pedagogy could be used before the main teaching/learning flow of the class begins. 
They would give a general idea of the theme. Students are facilitated with the relevant materials through 
various activities.  When they have finished working on it, the teacher asks them in English if they understood 
what it was about. For checking their understanding, she/he can design several activities. For instance, they 
can write a related word that they know in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways can be tried.
The teacher asks them to wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the 
theme, the digital introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any 
further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme “life in the universe and future” in the classroom, to prepare the students 
emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an 
icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-
being. This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/
rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote/a very short story, 
watching a pantomime/cartoon story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and does 
not require any knowledge of English  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V12.1, LS2, LS4). 
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills  (listening/watching-comprehension, reading-comprehension, speaking-expression, 
writing-expression, vocabulary selection and use, grammar selection and use, pronunciation selection and 
use) are used in an integrated way around “life in the universe and future” and sub-themes “planets and the 
Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” , allowing students to build background knowledge through 
receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a 
meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although 
they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in 
a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development 
and to increase communicative competence. The theme is characterised by a balanced integration of all the 
skills, where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) 
and respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their vocabulary, 
grammar and phonological selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_712 =====
712
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.8.L1.
PREPARING FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: Having seen a visual about and having guessed 
the topic of “life in the universe and future” during the background recall session, students can have a vision 
of the current theme as a general concept in the current  (new) theme  (D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.2, V3.3, V11.1, 
LS1, LS4, CS2.11, CS2.16.2).  So, a further concept check with listening/watching for gist activities including 
more guessing games using clues from some pictures, realia, short video clips etc. help them prepare for 
the current theme  (CS2.6, CS2.8).  For each theme, a digitally constructed story is used as the main context 
of the theme, and it is visited several times while going through the theme to cover target pronunciation, 
vocabulary, grammar, social language expressions, and semantic meaning of the whole theme  (CS2.14).  
It is both an entry material and the main context to the whole theme at the same time. The teacher asks 
them whether their guesses during the background recall session were correct and also what they think the 
introductory digital story that they are going to watch could be about  (CS2.8).  As they have already seen 
a scene from a film about the theme and the pictures, realia, etc. they can easily answer what the current 
theme will be about and that their guesses were true  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, D3.2, SELS1.2, V3.3, V3.4,V3.3, V11.1, 
LS2, LS4, CS2.10, CS2.17). 
ENG6.8.L2.
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING: The teacher asks the students to 
watch the introductory digital story carefully, recalling the work done with visuals  (the scene from a film, 
pictures, realia, or video clips about the theme shown earlier)   (CS2.11) .  Students watch the introductory 
digital story to consolidate the identification of the theme “life in the universe and future”  in it as a whole  
(CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that the students can understand the theme holistically  
(D3.2, SELS1.1, V3.3, V3.4, V3.3, V11.1, LS2, LS4, CS2.14, CS2.16.2).
ENG6.8.L3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING-COMPREHENSION: To draw students’ attention to the 
content, some realia brought into the classroom by the teacher could be used  (V3.3, V11.1).  The teacher 
could show the corresponding objects to the students when the corresponding vocabulary for the main 
components of the theme “life in the universe and future” is mentioned in the introductory digital story, 
without stopping the video while the students watch the story  (CS2.6).  When they have watched the whole 
story, the teacher could show the realia items on the table and ask questions with two options  (CS2.5).  
As one of the words is from the previous themes, students could hear, understand, recognise, and learn 
the  (new) target vocabulary for each main component of the theme easily  (CS2.1).  In this way, the teacher 
could engage in a dialogue with the whole class to check that they have recognised the components of the 
theme, and that they have understood each realia item is about one component  (CS2.8).  Further activities 
and games can be played at this stage to reinforce the general meaning of the theme through its main 
components  (D1.1, D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4). 
To check whether the students understand the general topic of the theme “life in the universe and future” 
and remember the sequence of the scenes of the introductory digital story, the teacher shows an organiser 
with the mixed images/pictures of the scenes on the Smart Board and asks the students to look at the 
images/pictures of the scenes for a while  (CS2.3).  She/He then asks them to order the scenes in pairs in 
their seats with the mixed paper pictures she/he has already given to the students  (SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, 
LS1, LS4, LS6 ). When the pairs have finished sorting the pictures for the scenes of the story, the teacher 
asks the students to take turns or volunteer to sort the scenes on the screen of the Smart Board  (or the 
pictures on the blackboard)  (SELS1.2, CS2.6, CS2.10) .  This will help the students to organise the story as 
a whole so that they can identify the main theme and the components of the theme from their memories  
(D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, V16.3, V20.4, CS2.12). 

===== PDF_PAGE_713 =====
713
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.8.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/ W ATCHING PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY : The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole listening-watching process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process   (SELS1.3, V3.4) . Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in 
pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V12.1, 
LS5, LS6).  The teacher facilitates different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and 
collaborative design  (V10.3). 
ENG6.8.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION : To practise pronunciation of the new target words, word 
groups, language chunks, and social language expressions about the theme “life in the universe and future” 
and the words and/or word groups for the sub-themes “planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the 
future”,the teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the whole or some extracts from the introductory 
digital story by noticing how words are pronounced  (V3.3, V11.1, LS4, LS5, LS6, CS2.6).  She/He asks them to 
repeat the word aloud when she/he stops the video for a word and says it. The teacher then asks the students 
to listen and repeat the same words aloud a few times as a whole class after listening to the recordings that 
she/he has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes  (LS2, CS2.16.3). The teacher could offer 
variations with some techniques such as showing the picture of the target word to the students to say the 
word or pointing to the corresponding picture when they hear the word from the recording, and then both  
(CS2.8).  To help the students pronounce the words accurately, the teacher asks them to repeat each target 
word aloud a few times as a whole class after her/him or the recording, then in large groups, then in small 
groups and then again as volunteers  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS1.2, SELS2.1, V4.2, V20.4, LS1, CS2.14). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Practice of pronunciation could be done with different 
forms of TPR, gamification and drama activities, e.g. first the teacher says the target words/word groups for 
the sub-themes “planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the future” , the students listen  (CS2.9); 
then the teacher says the target words/word groups and acts them out, the students repeat after her/him  
(SELS2.1, CS2.14).  Then the teacher and the students say the target words/word groups and act them out 
together at the same time. Then the teacher says the words/word groups and acts them out. These activities 
can be done through the actions for the sub-themes “planets and the Earth as a planet; life on Earth in the  
future” (D2.3,D2.5, V3.3, V3.3, V11.1).  As a variation, they can also repeat the words after the teacher happily, 
sadly, angrily, etc. using different tones of voice  (SELS2.3, CS2.8, CS2.11).  They also practise for the target 
social language chunks using the same or similar techniques. During the repetitions, they point to relevant 
pictures that the teacher has placed in different places in the classroom  (CS2.12).  Some action sequences 
are also created in which the students can practise the social language in a fun way by repeating, pointing, 
miming, and acting out in several games  (SELS2.1, V7.2, LS5, LS6, LS9) . The teacher facilitates some 
activities with dialogues and games in which students can practice the target pronunciation by selecting 
and using them accurately, naturally, and authentically  (CS3.1).  Several fun pronunciation games could be 
played, such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, 
and several sound drills  (SELS2.2).  The target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the 
theme are practised through them  (CS2.13).  Their learning is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (D1.2, D1.6, D2.5, V3.4, LS1, LS2, 
LS4).  

===== PDF_PAGE_714 =====
714
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.8.R1
PREPARATION FOR THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS: The teacher facilitates reading and writing 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise 
techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the 
theme in various forms and amounts. Reading is done in two ways in the theme by using the written version 
of the introductory digital story and additional reading texts in reading sections of the instructional material 
to be used  (V3.2, LS2, LS4) .  Various reading styles including silent reading, speed reading, jigsaw reading 
and basic reading techniques including skimming, scanning, and reading for details during pre-reading, 
while-reading and post-reading phases are used in the theme  (V3.4, LS1, CS2.3, CS2.6) . The ultimate aim 
of reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop pre-critical thinking skills and 
critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend and talk/write about the content in a meaningful and 
communicative way  (V3.3, V7.2, LS5, CS3.3). For the initial stage of reading, the teacher asks the students 
to look at the audio/visual/written elements (e.g. sound, voices, scenes, title of the text, written words) 
surrounding the written version of the contextual introductory story or a new text in the reading section of 
the instructional material to be used for skimming to recall the conceptual meanings they already have about 
the theme  (CS2.8).  At this stage, the teacher could ask the students to read the title of the theme and ask 
the students which words they already know, and which come to mind in connection with the title  (SELS1.1, 
CS2.16.2).  She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new words or the words they do not know. 
She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity by using the words they know and that there is time 
to work on the new words of the new theme later  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, CS2.10, CS2.12). 
ENG6.8.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING : Students go on with a scanning activity to find 
out the most important details of the introductory digital story and/or a new text in the reading section which 
is organised to help students to know more about the reading content  (CS2.6, CS2.7).  In this way they could 
be able to recognise the main components of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or 
tick the ones that they have heard, seen and scanned  (quickly read) in the story  (CS2.4).  By doing so, they 
will be able to understand the story/text in general using the main elements  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, V3.4, LS1). 
ENG6.8.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Then the teacher asks the students to do a jigsaw reading activity, 
so she/he shows the written version of the introductory digital story or the text in the reading section on the 
blackboard/Smart Board  (or in any other teaching material).  She/He asks the students to work in pairs to 
share the text  (SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the text and the second peer reads the other half 
of the text in a given time  (CS2.6).  They are then asked to share what they have understood from their part 
with their peer, also in a given time. In this way, they talk about the whole story after reading it silently, in the 
jigsaw reading style  (D2.4, D3.6, V3.4, V4.2, V16.2, LS1, LS6, CS2.8, CS2.9).  Some speed-reading activities 
can be used to develop students’ reading and comprehension skills. These activities can be evaluated as 
explained in the item  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After 
sharing their parts, students proceed with the activities for dealing with the target vocabulary, grammatical 
chunks, and semantic meaning relatively with the help of the teacher  (CS2.14).  For dealing with the semantic 
meaning, the teacher facilitates the lesson with meaningful activities including closed, semi-closed, free, 
open-ended, and communicative ones  (SELS2.1).  From display to communicative open-ended, various 
types of questions are used to understand the meaning of the text  (SELS3.1, SELS3.2, CS2.6).  During this 
process students work collaboratively to exchange information, thoughts, and feelings  (D3.2, D3.7, V3.3, 
V7.2, V20.2, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). 

===== PDF_PAGE_715 =====
715
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.8.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING-COMPREHENSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole reading-comprehension process and asks them to express 
their thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process  (SELS1.3).  Some volunteer students express what 
they think and feel about them  (CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other 
in pairs and take notes about the feedback they receive   (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates 
different activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design   (D2.3, D3.5, 
V4.2, V6.2, V10.3, V12.1, LS1, LS6). 
ENG6.8.V1.
PREPARATION TO WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY : At this stage, students remember what the 
theme is about through the activities that they have done during the background knowledge, pre-listening/ 
watching, and pre-reading sessions  (SELS1.1).  As they know the main topic, they get ready to deal with the 
main components and target vocabulary of the theme  (V3.2, LS1). 
RECOGNITION OF THE TARGET VOCABULARY : A scanning activity to find out the main details of the 
introductory digital story  (and/or a new text in the reading section) is organised to help students to know 
more about the content. This could help them identify what the target words in the text could be about. The 
activity could be designed by listing some important pictures, words or events about the main components 
of the theme that take place in the story/text. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard, seen 
and scanned  (quickly read) in the story. In this way, they will be able to understand the story/text in general 
by using the main elements and also be ready to work on the target vocabulary items  (D3.2, D3.6, LS1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.6, CS2.7). Then the students read the written version of the digital story again silently,  
(or the reading text in the reading section), to check whether they know any of the target vocabulary items 
about the theme  (V16.3, CS2.8). They underline the words whose meaning they do not know while reading 
silently  (CS2.17).  Students say these words when they finish reading and the teacher writes these words 
on the Smart Board/blackboard/ white board as they say them. The teacher writes only the target words on 
the Smart Board/blackboard as active words that the students have said. She/He quickly deals with the non-
target passive vocabulary items by using pictures, mimics, gestures, imitations, examples, etc. But she/he 
takes time to facilitate the teaching of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.2, V3.3, V3.4, LS2, LS4,CS2.4, CS2.5, 
CS2.7). 
To introduce and practise the meanings of the target vocabulary related to the theme, that the students do 
not know, the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story  (or the video of the reading 
text if there is one) again. From the beginning, whenever a target item is mentioned, the teacher stops the 
video and asks several questions in the form of two options, one of which is a word from the previous themes 
that they already know  ( V3.3, V11.1, CS2.16.1, CS2.6) .  By guessing what they are, the students hear the 
English equivalents of the words for the theme and they answer as a whole class in chorus. In this way, they 
are introduced to the meanings of the target words  (D1.2, D1.6,D3.7, CS2.10).  This is conducted in the form 
of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (SELS2.1)  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum   (V3.3, V3.4, V11.1, LS1, LS2, LS4).  
After having watched the introductory digital story, the teacher shows some pictures for the sub-themes, 
on the walls as clues and says the words aloud several times in sentences by pointing to the pictures and the 
students repeat after her/him   (D2.3, V3.3, V11.1, CS2.6, CS2.11).  In this way, the main vocabulary items of 
the theme are introduced to the students in English as described in item (3) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (V3.3, V11.1). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY : The teacher can prepare an activity using the Web 2.0 
programme with images/pictures, and symbolic images for some categories about the components of the 
theme “life in the universe and future”.  She/He also prepares mixed images/pictures for target vocabulary 

===== PDF_PAGE_716 =====
716
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
items for the activities which can be done in relation to the components. She/He asks the students to look 
at the mixed pile of images/pictures of the main components of the theme on the Smart Board screen and 
scan them for a while to remember them  (V3.3, V11.1, CS2.4). She/He explains to the students that the items 
will be placed under the correct category, but first she/he gives the students the cut-out pictures of the 
activities and a large sheet of paper with the categories written on it and the cut-out pictures will be placed 
under each category correctly  (V3.3, L2, LS4, CS2.5) . The teacher asks them to work in pairs and place 
the cut-out pictures in the right category and ask each other some questions about the theme  (D3.2, D3.8, 
SELS2.2, V3.3,V11.1).  When the students have finished working with the cut-out pictures and asking and 
answering questions about them, the teacher asks them to take turns or volunteer to go to the Smart Board 
and drag the corresponding images/pictures under the right category on the screen  (SELS1.2, V3.4, V20.4, 
LS1, LS4, CS2.5). In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the main concept and its components are 
consolidated through categorisation. This activity can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if 
there is a problem with technology. The teacher asks the students to copy the words next to the pictures 
they have pasted or drawn in their picture dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their picture 
dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling  (D3.2, SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V4.3, V6.2, 
LS9). To consolidate the meaning, selection, and use of the new target vocabulary items, the teacher could 
organise activities and tasks using pictures, flashcards, sounds, realia, and any other materials to play games 
such as Bingo, Pelmanism, King’s game, Odd One out, Wordscapes, Scrabble, Pictionary, Letter Scramble, 
Acronyms, Charades etc. Games could be adapted according to the teacher’s objectives  (pronunciation, 
spelling, meaning, selection, use etc.), age, interests and language level of the students  (CS2.13).  Students 
can be asked to create their own games to use the target vocabulary items in  (D2.5, D.3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, 
V4.2, V4.4, V3.3, V11.1, V7.2, LS9, CS2.20).  Students’ learning can be checked as described in items  (3), and  
(4) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG6.8.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS : To draw the students’ attention to the target language 
chunks of the theme “life in the universe and future”, the introductory digital story or an extract from it played 
so that the students can notice the target language chunks  (D3.2, CS2.2).  While watching the introductory 
digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the target language chunks are used. She/He imitates the 
action by showing the scene, saying the chunk, and asking the students to do the same  (V3.2, LS2, CS2.14). 
She/He could hold up large pictures corresponding to the chunks when they are mentioned in the digital 
story to draw the students’ attention. The sentences with the target chunks are also written and placed on 
the Smart Board/blackboard/ whiteboard. The teacher also points to these sentences while pointing to the 
scenes in the story where they appear. There is no analysis or teaching of grammatical structures at this 
stage. Students can automatically and naturally identify the use of the target language chunks in the current 
context created in the introductory digital story without working on any rules or structures  (SELS3.1, V3.4, 
LS1, LS4, CS2.3, CS2.4, CS2.16.2).  To check the students’ identification of the target language chunks, 
after the students have finished watching the introductory digital story, the teacher asks them to read 
the sentences with the target language chunks written by the teacher on the Smart Board /blackboard/
whiteboard and asks them to find the same or similar sentences in the written version of the introductory 
digital story or another text that is shown on the Smart Board  (D3.2, SELS3.2, V3.3). She/He also asks them 
to find the same or similar sentences with these chunks which are given in different types of tables prepared 
by the teacher  (CS2.7).  These tables do not include any explanations of grammatical rules, explanations, 
or formulas, and they only contain example sentences with target chunks in which important words with the 
target grammar are written in bold or different colours to attract students’ attention. The teacher asks them 
to look at the words in bold or in different colours and asks students to examine them  (CS2.9).  Then the 
teacher asks the students to copy these sentences with target chunks written in bold or different colours 
into their notebooks. The teacher asks the students to make very similar sentences using the target words 
and asks them to share their sentences with each other in pairs, and then with the class  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, 
D3.2, V4.2, CS2.13,CS2.14, CS2.16.1, CS2.16.2). Both the teacher and the class members give feedback to 

===== PDF_PAGE_717 =====
717
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
the students as they say their sentences  (CS2.19).  The teacher gives all students a checklist with simple 
symbols to evaluate each other’s work as explained in the items  (5) and  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, LS6). 
SELECTION AND USE OF THE TARGET GRAMMAR:  To facilitate students’ further practice with the target 
language chunks in the theme “life in the universe and future”, the teacher shows some other sentences with 
these chunks in another context such as a short story, a short paragraph, and a short dialogue etc. and asks 
students to find the sentences with the target chunks in them and asks if they understand them  (SELS3.2, 
V3.3, V3.3, V11.1, CS2.4, CS2.6,CS2.8).  She/He gives some written activities and exercises to practise the 
target chunks in context. She/He also facilitates more fun activities and as described in items  (5),  (8),  (9), 
and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. To consolidate the 
target language chunks, the teacher organises different fun activity and game bundles that the students can 
practise and consolidate them  (CS2.13) where their learning can be checked as described in item  (10) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (D2.5, V4.4). 
ENG6.8.W1.
PREPARATION FOR THE WRITING-EXPRESSION SESSION : Practising through writing: Writing activities 
help students  to  produce  and  display  meaningful  written  language  for  their  personal  expression  and 
communication with others, by using language including target words, grammatical structures in use and 
the social language in this theme, as in other themes  (V3.2, V3.3, V11.1). 
ENG6.8.W2.
RECOGNISING THE MODEL:  Initially, students produce very limited and short pieces of writing such as 
sentences to practise the language including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “life in the universe and future”. 
They practise the language in a more controlled way in the beginning, by writing to repeat or simply explain 
what they hear and see in context and what they are asked to do. They are provided a written model/example 
to copy to be able to notice significant points and elements in it  (SELS3.1).  While copying a short model 
writing, they become aware of the aspects such as the use of words, language chunks, punctuation, spelling 
and so on  (D3.1, V3.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.16.3). 
ENG6.8.W3.
CREATING THE WRITING CONTENT: Controlled writing of words and sentences turns to short paragraphs in 
a process writing manner with the support of the teacher’s feedback in the theme. This process is expanded 
and supported by several practical activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/ 
pantomime/video stories, dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, 
etc. to practise further by writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures 
related to the theme in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (D1.3, D3.1, SELS3.2,V3.4, V4.4, V7.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS9, CS2.20). 
ENG6.8.W4.
CONSTRUCTING AND PRACTISING WRITING:  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further writing practice tasks. Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
projects, scripts for plays, diaries/journals, blogs, very short film scenarios, etc. to express their ideas, 
thoughts, and feelings  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.2, CS2.13).  All the content is expected to be contextual, practical, 
authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests and language level  (V3.4, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, 
LS9). 

===== PDF_PAGE_718 =====
718
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.8.W5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING: Students  interact  and  communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside or outside school by using the language including the target words, language 
chunks, and the social language for the theme in their writing   (SELS2.2, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V3.3, V11.1, 
LS9, CS2.20).  AI- based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways  
(D3.3, SELS3.2, SELS3.3,V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).  These activities are evaluated as described in items  (11) and  
(12) in the section 1.2. Principles  for  the  Implementation  of  the  English  Curriculum.
ENG6.8.W6.
REFLECTING ON THE WRITING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY:  The 
teacher asks students to think about the whole writing-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (D1.5, SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs 
and take notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different 
activities for creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, 
LS1, LS6). 
ENG6.8.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING: The teacher facilitates speaking activities throughout the theme from the 
first lesson to the end. Speaking activities enhance students’ learning and help them produce and display 
meaningful language for personal expression and communication with others by using the language including 
the target words, grammatical structures in use and the social language expressions of the theme (V3.2, 
V3.4, V3.3, V11.1). 
ENG6.8.S2
RECOGNISING AND USING THE MODEL: In the beginning, through listening/watching and reading, students 
recognise how the language with the target language items is used  (CS2.6).  They practise the language in a 
controlled way, by telling, repeating, explaining what they hear and see in the context  (D1.3, D3.2, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.4). 
ENG6.8.S3
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN CONTENT : In the later stages of the lessons after controlled practice sessions, 
the teacher creates new contexts in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues etc. as new opportunities for the students to talk about them for practising further through 
questions, explanations, inferences etc  (D1.3, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.2, V7.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13). 
ENG6.8.S4.
CONSTRUCTING SPOKEN MATERIALS: Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related 
to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact with peers 
and/or other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
grammar in use, and the social language for the theme (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V4.2, V3.3, V11.1,CS2.20). AI-
based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They 
can also produce digital materials and projects at school and at home through recordings   (D1.2, D1.6, D3.3, 
V7.2,LS2, LS9, CS2.20). 

===== PDF_PAGE_719 =====
719
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG6.8.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING AND COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Students communicate with each other by 
seeing/hearing/reading/using the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to 
the theme “life in the universe and future” in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.3, CS2.20).  
Picture strip stories can be used at the end of each theme to provide a consolidation and revision  (V3.4, 
V4.2, V12.1, LS1, LS4, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). These new contents created are contextual, practical, authentic, 
real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. Storification and gamification 
techniques are actively and extensively used together with other further speaking practice throughout the 
theme. Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such 
as dialogues, speeches, presentations, short texts etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people in or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language grammar in 
use, and the social language for the theme and its components such as  “planets and the Earth as a planet; 
life on Earth in the future” (V3.4, V4.2, V3.3, V11.1, LS4, CS3.1, CS2.20) . AI-based technologies can be used 
for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials 
and projects at school and at home through recordings   (D2.5, D3.3, SELS3.3, V7.2, LS2, CS2.20).  These 
are evaluated as described in items  (7),  (8),  (9), and  (10) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum. Then they can expand their language use and practise by communicating with 
others.
ENG6.8.S6.
REFLECTING ON THE SPEAKING-EXPRESSION PROCESS INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLABORATIVELY: The
teacher asks students to think about the whole speaking-expression process and asks them to express their 
thoughts, ideas, and feelings about the process. Some volunteer students express what they think and feel 
about them  (SELS1.3, CS2.15).  Then they give feedback about their reflections to each other in pairs and take 
notes about the feedback they receive  (D2.4, D3.5, SELS2.2).  The teacher facilitates different activities for 
creating versatile reflection sessions in a fun and collaborative design (V4.3, V6.2, V10.3, V20.4, LS1, LS6).
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To practise future plans, intentions, or something that is likely to happen based on present 
evidence in English by making a presentation.
Activity 1: Building Tomorrow’s Earth
The teacher divides the class into groups of 4-5 students. They work in teams to make a presentation about 
different aspects of life in 2050. Each group focuses on a specific area of life on Earth, such as Technology 
(How will innovations like artificial intelligence, robots, and space exploration transform everyday life?), 
Environment (What environmental changes will happen by 2050?), Society and Culture (How will people live? 
How will family structures, education, and work environments be?), Cities (What will future cities look like? 
Will there be smart cities, floating cities, or green cities with zero waste?), Health & Medicine (Will people 
have longer and healthier lives?). Each group spends 10-15 minutes brainstorming ideas for their theme. They 
focus on how life will be different by 2050, using current trends and evidence to support their predictions.  
The groups share their presentation with the class. After each presentation, the class engages in a Question 
& Answer session. The teacher encourages students to ask questions like: “How do you think we will solve 
environmental problems by 2050?”, “Why do you think people are going to live in floating cities?”, “What makes 
you think robots will replace teachers in the future?”. The teacher asks students to provide positive feedback 
to each group, using phrases like “I like your idea because…” or “It was interesting when you said…”. Students 
reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.

===== PDF_PAGE_720 =====
720
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Supporting
Objective: To practise future plans, intentions, or something that is likely to happen based on present 
evidence in English by making a presentation.
Activity 1: Building Tomorrow’s Earth
The teacher divides the class into groups of 4-5 students. They work in teams to make a presentation about 
different aspects of life in 2050. Each group focuses on a specific area of life on Earth, such as Technology 
(How will innovations like artificial intelligence, robots, and space exploration transform everyday life?), 
Environment (What environmental changes will happen by 2050?), Society and Culture (How will people live? 
How will family structures, education, and work environments be?), Cities (What will future cities look like? 
Will there be smart cities, floating cities, or green cities with zero waste?), Health & Medicine (Will people 
have longer and healthier lives?). Each group spends 10-15 minutes brainstorming ideas for their theme. The 
teacher provides visual aids, simple sentence frames (e.g., “In 2050, people will _______”, “It might happen 
because _______”), and vocabulary lists to help them express ideas. The groups share their presentation 
with the class. After each presentation, the class engages in a Q&A (Question & Answer) session. The 
teacher encourages students to ask questions like: “How do you think we will solve environmental problems 
by 2050?”, “Why do you think people are going to live in floating cities?”, “What makes you think robots will 
replace teachers in the future?”. The teacher asks students to provide positive feedback to each group, 
using phrases like “I like your idea because…” or “It was interesting when you said…”. Students reflect on their 
thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_721 =====
721
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
YEAR 7 
 (LEVEL: A2.3) 
THEME 1: SCHOOL LIFE & EDUCATION
Sub-themes: Extra-curricular activities at school; 
competitions and celebrations at school; national days 
and celebrations
This theme is centred on the concept of “school life and education” and covers 
the sub-themes of “extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and 
celebrations at school; national days and celebrations”. These components (sub-
themes) are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised 
use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and 
social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed 
to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within 
and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 14 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.4. Self-Efficacy, D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.1. Empathy, 
D2.2. Responsibility, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, D2.5. Playfulness,  D3.1. 
Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.4. Seeking the Truth, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning, 
D3.9. Doubting, D3.10. Critical Perspective
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1 Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2 Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill 

===== PDF_PAGE_722 =====
722
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Visual Arts, Music, Physical Education and 
Sports, Technology and Design 
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information 
Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. 
Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based 
Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, 
CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.18. Argumentation Skill, CS2.19. 
Logical Auditing Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, 
CS3.2. Problem Solving Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_723 =====
723
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 7 is structured based on inductive approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.7.1.L1.  Students can prepare and get ready for listening (to)/watching about the current content 
on “school life and education with extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and 
celebrations at school; national days and celebrations”.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience about the current theme and 
content to recall their background knowledge by investigating it carefully.
b) Students identify significant and necessary relationships and connections between their pre-
existing knowledge, their past experience and the clues to the current content by responding 
to meaningful questions about it (without speaking Turkish or using a translation).
c) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by using their pre-existing 
knowledge and past experience of the content.
d) Students make rational predictions about the current content by looking at the supplementary 
visual elements provided. 
ENG.7.1.L2.  Students can bring together the information in the current content on “school life and education 
with extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national 
days and celebrations”.
a) Students identify the main topic of the current content in general by listening (to)/watching it 
as a whole in its context. 
b) Students recognise the significant details and basic components of the current content within 
the whole by listening (to) and watching the whole content carefully to notice them.
ENG.7.1.L3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “school life and 
education with extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; 
national days and celebrations”.
a) Students check their initial predictions about the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between their self-predictions and the clues provided as visuals surrounding 
the content.
b) Students make significant and necessary classifications in the current content that affect the 
meaning of the generally perceived content.
c) Students make significant and necessary comparisons in the generally perceived current 
content to highlight differences between two or more different things by using visuals, ensuring 
clarity and meaning.
d) Students recognise significant branching, linear or spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content.
e) Students make essential inferences and deductions to understand the meaning of the 
generally perceived current content better.
f) Students strongly recognise the holistic meaning formed by the components, comparisons, 
classifications, and details related to the current content.
g) Students construct a detailed understanding of the meaning of the current content through 
prior classifications, comparisons, and inferences/deductions.
h) Students position, internalise and personalise current content in an individualised, age-
appropriate and level-appropriate way.

===== PDF_PAGE_724 =====
724
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.7.1.L4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to 
the listening (to)/watching process about the current content on “school life and education 
with extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national 
days and celebrations” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students individually convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings 
that are critically reviewed in relation to the current listening (to)/watching contents and the 
process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current listening (to)/watching content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce new audio/visual products individually by revising their personal work after 
participating in reflective activities related to the listening (to)/watching process of the current 
content.
ENG.7.1.P1.  Students can select and use target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases, clauses, and sentences in utterances authentically, naturally, 
and accurately in the current content about “school life and education with extra-curricular 
activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days and celebrations” 
to develop holistic and conscious pronunciation skills after recognising them in context. 
a) Students recognise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases and sentences in utterances within the current content by 
listening (to)/ watching it, first as a whole and then with pauses.
b) Students repeat utterances, including target sentences, clauses, phrases, and words with 
target theme-specific sounds by considering phonological aspects such as pronunciation and 
intonation accurately and naturally in the content several times as a whole class and then in 
groups and individually.
c) Students talk about the current content by taking part in small group conversations by paying 
attention to select and use accurate phonological aspects such as pronunciation, intonation, 
stress, and other features as they are understood.
d) Students reflect personally on their pronunciation and other target phonological aspects such 
as intonation after recording and listening to group conversations about the target content.
e) Students evaluate feedback from others and their personal feedback and reflection by 
listening to or watching the audio/visual content again to check for accuracy.
f) Students utilise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of utterances including target sounds of the current content, appropriately, effectively, 
accurately, naturally, automatically, and consciously when communicating with others in 
different contexts.
ENG.7.1.R1.  Students can prepare for reading the content on “school life and education with extra-curricular 
activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days and celebrations” 
efficiently and effectively.
a) Students recall and activate significant pre-existing knowledge and past experiences that can 
be related to the current theme and content through careful exploration. 
b) Students recognise significant relationships between pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to current content.
c) Students make strong preliminary predictions about the current content based on explored 
and recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring and examining the 
audio-visual clues in relation to it.

===== PDF_PAGE_725 =====
725
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.7.1.R2.  Students can bring information together about the current content on “school life and 
education with extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; 
national days and celebrations” through skimming, scanning and detailed reading.
a) Students skim the current content by looking very quickly and carefully at the surrounding 
visual materials to identify its general focus.
b) Students scan the current content by reading it silently and quickly to find key and major 
components.
c) Students read the current content again silently and carefully to examine any significant 
semantic and structural details.
d) Students examine the semantic details in the content carefully to check the accuracy of their 
initial predictions.
ENG.7.1.R3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “school life and 
education with extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; 
national days and celebrations”.
a) Students classify significant and necessary elements of the current content in a meaningful 
way.
b) Students compare significant and key elements of the current content with each other or with 
similar ones in a meaningful way.
c) Students recognise significant and basic spiral, causal, and logical relationships in the current 
content through careful examination and analysis.
d) Students make meaningful inferences from information in the current content by examining 
it critically.
e) Students internalise their meaningful inferences from information in the current content in an 
individualised way appropriate to their age and language level.
ENG.7.1.R4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related 
to the reading process about the current content on “school life and education with extra-
curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days and 
celebrations” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content 
and process with others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
ENG.7.1.V1.  Students can select and use target vocabulary efficiently, effectively, and accurately, based on 
the current content about “school life and education with extra-curricular activities at school; 
competitions and celebrations at school; national days and celebrations” after recognising 
them in context and developing their conscious and inductive vocabulary learning skills.
a) Students make predictions about the main topic of the current content by identifying “general 
contextual clues” from the visual, audio, and written preparation materials provided during the 
“listening/watching for gist” and/or reading for “skimming” sessions.
b) Students check the accuracy of the predictions related to the “general contextual clue” by 
listening to, watching, and/or reading the audio, visual, and/or written content in context.
c) Students search the target audio/visual, and/or written content by scanning to find key 
components of the theme.
d) Students listen/watch the content carefully and/or read it silently to identify and underline/
circle target unknown words.

===== PDF_PAGE_726 =====
726
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
e) Students separate target (key-active) words from the other (non-key-passive) words in the 
target content.
f) Students examine relevant target words, phrases, and expressions in the current content to 
understand how and where they are used.
g) Students determine paragraph context clues to identify the topics of the parts/paragraphs 
containing unknown target words.
h) Students discuss the meaning of the target words by finding indirect sentence context clues in 
the assigned sentences of the parts/paragraphs of the content.
i) Students determine the correct meanings of the target words in the current content in pairs or 
groups by comparing the meanings/definitions proposed.
j) Students confirm the accuracy of the meanings/definitions of the target words in  the current 
content by consulting with the teacher, the class and/or by using printed or digital dictionaries.
k) Students make use of the target words of the current theme in a range of semantically 
associated contextual activities and tasks accurately, naturally, authentically, and 
appropriately.
l) Students make use of the target words of the current theme accurately, naturally, appropriately 
and effectively through careful selection when communicating with others.
ENG.7.1.G1.  Students can select and use target grammatical language items efficiently, effectively, and 
accurately, based on the current content about “school life and education with extra-curricular 
activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days and celebrations”, 
after recognising them in context and developing their conscious and inductive grammaring 
skills through consciousness-raising and discovery.
a) Students listen to, watch, and/or read the audio, visual, and written current content presented 
in context that introduces the general use of the target language structures in the current 
theme.
b) Students examine example sentences provided by the teacher or instructional materials 
including target grammatical items to see how the target grammatical structure(s) of the 
target theme is/are used to construct a meaning or contribute to meaning.
c) Students analyse current audio, visual, and/or written content presented in context to identify 
sentences similar to those provided as examples.
d) Students find the commonalities between the sentences identified and those exemplified by 
the teacher or materials through careful comparison in pairs and/or groups.
e) Students discover the characteristics of the commonalities in the sentences in the current 
content by discussing them in pairs or groups as an awareness/consciousness-raising activity.
f) Students formulate rule(s) about the same/target grammar structure(s) of the current theme 
based on their observations and discussions in pairs or groups.
g) Students engage in contextual activities on the use of target grammatical structures 
(grammaring) of the current theme to explain and justify the grammar rule(s) they have 
discovered.
h) Students practise to consolidate their understanding of the target grammar that they 
discovered by selecting accurate and meaningful items in meaningful and contextualised 
activities.
i) Students produce accurate and unique verbal or written content by using target grammar 
consciously and in a natural way, without thinking about the rules.
j) Students produce new spoken/written content by using the target grammatical structures 
efficiently, authentically, automatically, and naturally in context when communicating with 
others without thinking about rules.

===== PDF_PAGE_727 =====
727
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.7.1.W1.  Students can prepare for writing efficiently and accurately based on the current content 
about “school life and education with extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and 
celebrations at school; national days and celebrations”.
a) Students relate pre-existing knowledge and experiences from initial listening, watching, and 
reading processes to current content by examining and activating them.
b) Students understand what the current writing task requires in terms of content and purpose in 
relation to the current content accurately by applying pre-existing knowledge and experiences, 
following guided instructions.
ENG.7.1.W2.  Students can analyse and understand a provided model to guide them in producing similar 
writing tasks related to the content on “school life and education with extra-curricular 
activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days and celebrations”.
a) Students grasp the significant and basic components of the content in the model/sample 
provided for the assigned writing task, including word selection and use, grammar selection 
and use, and other details such as type, style, and meaning as required.
ENG.7.1.W3.  Students can construct new written content on “school life and education with extra-curricular 
activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days and celebrations” 
based on their understanding of the model(s) provided.
a) Students share their ideas and thoughts by brainstorming through collaborative discussion to 
generate ideas for the new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current 
theme.
b) Students plan how the knowledge and ideas generated during the brainstorming session can 
be applied to their new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current theme.
c) Students conduct preliminary research relevant to the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) 
writing task on the current content, considering the type of writing, age appropriateness, and 
language level.
d) Students produce a well-organised and detailed draft relevant to the (prepared and/or 
unprepared) type of writing and appropriate for the age and language level.
e) Students organise and develop contextual materials relevant to the type of the assigned task 
(prepared and/or unprepared) and appropriate to age and language level.
f) Students modify the content they produce for the assigned writing task in a coherent and 
meaningful way, consistent with the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) type of writing, 
and appropriate to the age and language level.
ENG.7.1.W4.  Students can practise producing written content based on the current theme “school life and 
education with extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; 
national days and celebrations”.
a) Students present relevant supportive materials appropriate to the assigned (prepared and/
or unprepared) writing task, considering the type of writing and appropriated to the age and 
language level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and strategies for the assigned (prepared 
and/or unprepared) writing task, considering its writing type and appropriate to their age and 
language level.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language structures accurately and appropriately 
in their writing tasks, by selecting necessary and appropriated ones in line with the assigned 
type of writing and appropriate to the age and language level.
d) Students express their messages about the current content clearly to the reader in the 
assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task.

===== PDF_PAGE_728 =====
728
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.7.1.W5.  Students can engage in the process of writing related to the content on “school life and 
education with extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; 
national days and celebrations”.
a) Students review the feedback from the teacher and/or peers critically on their prepared and/
or unprepared writing task(s).
b) Students revise to reorganise the written content of their prepared and/or unprepared task 
based on the feedback received from the teacher and/or peers.
c) Students refine and develop their written content produced for their prepared/unprepared 
writing task through the iterative feedback process.
ENG.7.1.W6.  Students can reconstruct their writing about the current theme on “school life and education 
with extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national 
days and celebrations” to communicate effectively about it.
a) Students adapt and use individually internalised information in current or similar content by 
selecting and reorganising it meaningfully in written form as necessary when communicating 
with other people in different contexts.
b) Students exchange information and ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge and content with others.
ENG.7.1.W7.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the writing 
process about the current content on “school life and education with extra-curricular activities 
at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days and celebrations” in relation 
to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings they review 
critically in relation to their current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current writing-expression content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce their new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current writing-expression content and process.
ENG.7.1.S1.  Students can prepare themselves to speak meaningfully, fluently, and efficiently about the 
current content on “school life and education with extra-curricular activities at school; 
competitions and celebrations at school; national days and celebrations”.
a) Students relate current content by analysing pre-existing knowledge and experiences from 
earlier listening, watching, and reading sessions to associate them with the current content.
ENG.7.1.S2.  Students can analyse and understand the model content related to “school life and education 
with extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national 
days and celebrations” to support the production of spoken language.
a) Students grasp what the provided model/example is about with the help of audio, visual, and/
or written elements after listening, watching, and/or reading the current content.
ENG.7.1.S3.  Students can produce meaningful and accurate spoken content related to the current theme 
on “school life and education with extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and 
celebrations at school; national days and celebrations”.
a) Students recognise which form and type of spoken content is expected and assigned based on 
the  model/example about the current theme for both prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations through careful examination.
b) Students conduct preliminary research on the expected and assigned content to be produced  
for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.

===== PDF_PAGE_729 =====
729
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students develop a draft outline in accordance with the assigned prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations as presented in the model/example, appropriate to the age and language 
level based on the current theme.
d) Students organise supplementary audio-visual materials in accordance with the assigned 
task as presented in the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations 
and appropriate to their age and language level. 
e) Students organise information related to the current content to be presented, appropriate to 
the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
f) Students critically review their prepared presentation content for accuracy, coherence, and 
appropriateness to audience and context in prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.7.1.S4.  Students can construct meaningful spoken content about “school life and education with 
extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days 
and celebrations” through efficient and meaningful practice.
a) Students make spoken content clear and understandable to listeners by selecting and using 
style and form appropriate to age and language level in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
b) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using materials appropriate to the 
context, age, language level, style, and type of discourse, similar to those presented in the 
model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using target vocabulary and language 
structures similar and/or appropriate to those presented in the model/example considering 
their age, language level, context, style, and type of discourse for prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations.
d) Students convey relevant explicit, implicit, and/or complex messages related to the current 
content clearly in context to the listeners by using appropriate material and body language in 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
e) Students convey their messages about the current content clearly to the listeners by 
incorporating all the necessary semantic elements in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
ENG.7.1.S5.  Students can reconstruct the information about “school life and education with extra-curricular 
activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days and celebrations” 
when communicating with others.
a) Students use the same or similar information presented in the current content in verbal or 
written forms in different contexts by reorganising it meaningfully, accurately, effectively, 
efficiently, functionally, and individually as required.
b) Students engage in verbal and/or written communication by sharing the reconstructed 
meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.7.1.S6.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the speaking 
process about the current content on “school life and education with extra-curricular activities 
at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days and celebrations” in relation 
to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students reveal their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they review critically 
in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
critically review in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process with 
others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_730 =====
730
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
SCHOOL LIFE & EDUCATION
Sub-themes: extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days 
and celebrations
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for extra-curricular activities at school: 
Nouns: A drama play, a drawing, football (soccer-game-AmE.), an exhibition, a congratulation.
Verbs: To act, to attend, to be keen (on),
Adjectives: Fun, religious, casual (clothes), talented, 
Vocabulary for competitions and celebrations at school:
Nouns: An ability, an audience, a competition, first, an organization, a winner, a prize, a finish, a start, an 
organization, a choice, 
Verbs: To beat, to celebrate, to race, to blow (up a balloon / candles),  to break a record.
Adjectives: Excellent, fair, fascinating,
Adverbs: Fortunately, last.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Simple Present Tense: (I attend extra-curricular activities after school).
-The Present Progressive Tense (now, at present, today): (She is drawing a beautiful picture for the art 
competition at present).
-Adverbs of frequency: (He rarely acts in the school dramas).
-Modals must and can’t (prohibition): (You must follow the competition rules to win a prize).
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of the Simple Present Tense: Describing regular actions, general truths, and habits.
-Use of the Present Progressive Tense (now, at present, today): Describing actions happening right now or 
around the present moment.
-Use of adverbs of frequency: Expressing the frequency of an action.
-Use of modals must and can’t (prohibition): Expressing prohibition.
Target Social Language in Use:
What’s on the timetable today?
Is a non-uniform day coming up?
It’s my turn to be line leader today!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Intonation of positive statements

===== PDF_PAGE_731 =====
731
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “school life and education” and its components such as “extra-curricular 
activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days and celebrations” is present 
in almost all languages. People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with 
them and transfer it to their new language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will 
know what “school life and education” and its components such as “extra-curricular activities at school; 
competitions and celebrations at school; national days and celebrations” means but will not know how to say 
them in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing 
knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more 
easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts:
An extra-curricular activity, extra-curricular activities at school; competitions, celebrations, competitions 
and celebrations at school, national days.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will prepare a project to reflect on the importance of extracurricular 
activities, competitions, and celebrations in shaping their school experience. They will create a visual 
presentation about their favourite extracurricular activity and explain how it helps them develop new skills 
and build friendships. They should also describe a memorable school competition or celebration. Finally, 
students will propose ideas for new activities or events that could make school life even more enjoyable and 
enriching for everyone. The assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a 
marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “school life and education” and its components such as 
“extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days and celebrations”. 
As they are lower secondary school students in year 7 (seven), they can know what “school life and education” 
and its components such as “extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; 
national days and celebrations” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people who start 
to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and transfer 
it to their new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these things in a foreign 
language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in 
their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a foreign language, 
in this case English.
As they are students in year 7 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “school 
life and education” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or years. 
These grammatical items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning of 
the year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the 
current theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “school life and education” and its components such as “extra-curricular activities at 
school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days and celebrations”. Recalling and practising 
with relevant vocabulary and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would 
be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “school life and 
education”. Their knowledge of the days of the week and holidays will help them learn and practise important 
national holidays such as “the Republic Day of Türkiye”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise 

===== PDF_PAGE_732 =====
732
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
all vocabulary and grammatical items from the previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in 
English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they 
remember and how much they are able to understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks 
to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to 
revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their 
performance can be evaluated by rubrics throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students are asked to recall the concept of “school life and education” by remembering their pre-existing 
background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with 
the current activities in the theme in English without saying anything in Turkish and without translating 
anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English. To remind them 
of their pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, many materials 
such as “a scene from a short film, a passage from a book, a part from a personal diary (journal),  a part of a 
story, a collection of pictures, a part of an animation, a poster, an excerpt from a video etc.” related to this 
content can be shared with the class before the main teaching/learning flow begins. The materials about 
the current concept would give a general idea of the theme. Students are work on the material according to 
the instructions and try to grasp it. The teacher tries to check if they have an idea about the topic of the new 
theme with several activities. When they have finished working on them, the teacher asks them in English 
if they have understood what has been in the material. She/He asks them to write a related words that they 
already know (learnt in previous years) in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/ box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways for checking their comprehension could be tried by the teacher.
They wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the theme, the digital 
introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme‘’ school life and education”  in the classroom, to prepare the students 
emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as 
an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their 
well-being  (D1.5, V12.1, V13.4). This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/
singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote, 
a very short story, watching a pantomime/online story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current 
theme and does not require any knowledge of the current theme in English  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.4, V7.2, 
V13.2, LS4). That is only for relaxation and preparation for the lesson.
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills are used in an integrated way around a central topic “school life and education”  and the 
sub-themes of “extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days 
and celebrations”, allowing students to build background knowledge through receptive skills before moving 
on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and 
are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive 
to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely linked way that means 
each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development and to increase communicative 
competence. The theme ‘’ school life and education”  is characterised by a balanced integration of all the 
skills, where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) 
and respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their grammar, 
vocabulary and phonological selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_733 =====
733
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.1.L1.
PREPARATION FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students prepare to access the introduction to the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to remember what they have done during the “establishing links” 
session for recalling background knowledge about the related concept where they watched a short film 
scene prepared for that section  (which is not a part of the introductory digital story of the theme)  (D3.2, 
V3.4,LS1, LS2, LS4).  They remember what they already know about the content to prepare themselves to 
work on guessing the topic of the current theme  (V1.2, V3.4, V14.1, V14.3, LS1, LS5). They prepare to access 
the main materials of the theme for having connections by making predictions based on the short film in the 
“establishing links” session  (D3.8, V3.3, LS1, LS4). 
ENG7.1. L2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER BY LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students collect “general context clues” to 
understand the whole content by looking at visual clues before listening  (to)/watching. The teacher asks the 
students to look at any visual material such as pictures, posters, and realia related to the current content to 
identify the topic of the content and to answer the question “What is the whole content about?”  (D3.6, V1.2, 
V3.4, V14.1, V14.3, LS1, LS4,LS5, CS2.2). They can realise that there might be different elements related to 
this concept  (D2.1, V4.5) . The teacher asks them to look at the visuals quickly to make predictions about 
the topic of the whole theme by using the “listening  (to)/watching for gist” strategy before listening/watching 
the main visual material of the theme, which is the introductory digital story  (D3.8, V4.5, LS1, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.11). The teacher asks the students to read the title of the theme and asks them to brainstorm by thinking 
about which words they already know and whichwords come to mind in connection with the title  (D3.4, LS2, 
CS2.12, CS2.16.2). She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new/target words they do not know 
at this stage of the lesson. She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity to guess the general 
topic/theme of the context by using the words they already know and that there will be time to work on the 
new words of the current content later  (D1.4, V12.2). At this stage, some guessing games can be played to 
guess the main topic of the current content/theme by using the clues from the additional visuals such as 
pictures, posters, etc. related to the content, prepared and produced by the teacher, by using web 2.0 tools  
(D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS2, LS4, CS2.12). 
ENG7.1.L3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  Students identify and recognise the topic of the 
current theme by listening  (to)/watching the introductory digital story that provides a context for the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the introductory digital story to recognise the 
topic of the theme in general  (This is a kind of preparation to work on the target key vocabulary in the later 
stages of the lesson (s)  (D3.2, V3.4). The teacher asks the students to recall the work done with visuals  (the 
scene from a short film) in the “establishing links” session about the current context shown earlier during the 
listening  (to)/ watching session  (D3.2, LS2). Students watch the digital introductory story and consolidate 
the identification of the target theme as a whole  (CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that 
the students can hear/ see the context as a whole and understand the theme holistically.   (D3.1, V1.2, V3.4, 
V14.1, V14.3, LS2, LS4, LS5). 
MAKING MEANING THROUGH THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE THEME BY LISTENING/W ATCHINfG:  
Students find and identify the main components of the current content by listening  (to)/watching the 
context quickly through scanning. The teacher organises a scanning activity to find out the components as 
the basic and most important details of the current content through the introductory digital story to help 
students learn and know more about the current theme. She/He asks the students to listen and watch the 
story again without stopping, by scanning/looking for any relevant words or concepts that are heard in the 
story  (D3.6, V3.4, LS2, LS4, LS7). The teacher hands out a sheet to the students on which there is a list of 

===== PDF_PAGE_734 =====
734
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
words/phrases, etc. to tick, circle or underline. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard through 
watching the story very quickly without stopping. The teacher could apply different versions of scanning 
activities such as finding important elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which 
elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, LS1, CS2.4 ).  In this 
way, they will be able to understand the story in general through the main elements and components by 
eliminating the irrelevant ones. Students share with the whole class the words and components they have 
found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the teacher to them  (D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.4). Then they 
discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class   (SELS2.2, CS2.8).  This is evaluated as described in 
items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After having 
watched the introductory digital story, the teacher places five headings on the smart board/whiteboard/
blackboard which are on the target vocabulary list of the related theme as clues to the components of the 
current theme  (D3.7, V1.2, V3.4, V14.1, V14.3, LS5) . She/He places a corresponding picture next to each 
component and writes the name of each heading. She/He guides students to understand the heading of each 
category with the help of pictures. The teacher asks the students to work with the words they already know 
during this phase of the lesson  (SELS1.2).  Students work on these categories with the help of the scenes 
from the introductory digital story  (D3.6, LS2, LS4) . The teacher reads the headings aloud a few times by 
pointing to the corresponding pictures on the board and the students repeat them. Then the students say the 
headings all together. For working on the sub-themes of “extra-curricular activities at school; competitions 
and celebrations at school; national days and celebrations” further, the teacher asks volunteers to go to the 
board and choose the picture  (already provided by the teacher) to stick/pin/ drag it on the white/black board 
or the smart board  (if the teacher asks)  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.2, V3.4, V20.4, LS2, LS4).  Then, they say the 
headings  (components) together as a whole class. In this way, the main components of the theme ‘’ school 
life and education”  are introduced to the students in English  (LS5).  At this stage, the meanings of the target 
words are not studied, but the categorisation of the basic components contributes to their recognition of 
the concept in general. The teacher could ask the students to decide which words in the introductory digital 
story they do not know and to note them while reading the text later in the reading session  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.8, 
SELS1.1, V3.4). This could be evaluated as described in items  (1),  (2),  (3),  (6)  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. All this work helps them understand the main 
categories through classifications and also the inferences they make while listening to and watching the 
introductory digital story and/or examining the picture related to the content. In this way, they recognise and 
comprehend the main concept as a whole through categorisation, comparison, and inference  (D3.6, D3.7, 
CS2.5, V3.3, LS2, LS4, LS7). 
ENG7.1.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS : Students check the accuracy of their prior 
guesses, reflect on their ideas and feelings about the listening/watching session, and give feedback to each 
other. After the students listen  (to)/watch the introductory digital story to find the main components of 
the theme, the teacher asks them whether their guesses they made during the “establishing links” session, 
looking at visuals session, and their first listening  (to)/watching session have been correct  (D3.8,V4.2, V4.3, 
LS2, LS4).  As they have already seen a scene from a short film created about the concept of the current 
theme, during the “establishing links” session earlier, and looked at some supplementary visuals  (pictures, 
the title of the theme) and also they saw the picture related to the introductory digital story they can easily 
answer what the current theme is about and that their guesses were correct  (D3.4, V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, 
CS2.8). The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
listening  (to)/watching process and students talk about them individually  (SELS1.3) and share them with 
the whole class  (D2.3, SELS.2.1, V4.2).  After the reflection and feedback session, they talk again about the 
components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their ideas  (SELS2.2, V4.2, V10.3). 

===== PDF_PAGE_735 =====
735
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.1.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Students recognise the pronunciation and other phonological 
aspects of target utterances, including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch an extract from the introductory digital story as 
the main context for noticing the target phonological elements  (LS1, LS2, LS4) .  She/He asks them to pay 
attention to the target pronunciation and/or other phonological aspects in the current content. The teacher 
asks them to notice how the target phonological aspects are used in context. Starting with the extract from 
the digital story, students go on with other contextual examples and activities to hear and understand the 
use of target elements in context  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION  (AND OTHER PHONOLOGICAL ASPECTS ): Students 
select and use accurate, natural, and authentic target pronunciation and other phonological aspects of the 
target utterances including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme ‘’ school 
life and education”. After recognition activities, students repeat the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme aloud a few times as a whole class with accurate 
and natural pronunciation and other phonological aspects after listening  (to)/watching the recordings that 
the teacher has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes or some other AI-based technologies  
(D3.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2). To help the students pronounce the target utterances including sentences, clauses, 
phrases, words, and sounds accurately, the teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as 
showing the target utterance to the students and they say it or letting them listen to the recording, then 
turning off the recording randomly and students say the utterances they hear from the recording  (D3.2, 
D3.7, D2.3).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one 
out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound exercises by getting help from 
AI technologies  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). Along with the target utterances, the target 
sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are also practised in the same ways. This 
is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) as described in the section1.2.Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7). 
FURTHER PRACTICE OF THE TARGET PRONUNCIATION : Students practise pronunciation with further 
activities for practice, consolidation, feedback and reflection. The teacher could use tape recording and 
feedback techniques. Students read aloud and record a text with the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the  current  theme   provided  by  the  teacher, at home  (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.3, SELS3.1, V4.1,V5.1, LS2, LS5) . They bring their recording (s) to school. First, they listen to the 
correct pronunciation of the text,provided by the teacher, in class. Then they listen to the recordings of 
individual students. During or after listening to the texts recorded by the students at home, the students give 
self-feedback or peer feedback on the pronunciation of the words in the recordings  (D2.4, D3.6, SELS1.3, 
SELS2.2, V4.1, V12.1, V14.1, LS1 , LS5).  If available, a different version of the recording technique could be 
applied in the class. The teacher asks the students to discuss, say/talk about something, which they already 
know, related to the theme. Groups take turns to talk and the rest of the class listens  (D2.3, D2.4, SELS2.2).  
During this session, the teacher records their discussions. After each group’s performance, the class listens 
to the recording for pronunciation and everyone gives feedback on it, including the individual students who 
have spoken during the discussion  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS1). The teacher can get 
help from AI-based technologies for these activities if available. Students’ performances are evaluated as 
explained in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
pronunciation process and students talk about them individually  (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole 
class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS2, CS2.15).  After the reflection and feedback 
session, they talk again about the components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their 
ideas  (SELS1.2, V3.3, V6.2,V10.3, LS1, LS2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_736 =====
736
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.1.V1
PREPARATION FOR THE WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To scan for finding the main components of 
the theme ‘’ school life and education”,  the teacher asks the students to listen to and watch the introductory 
digital story to remember the topic of content mentioned in the previous listening/watching sessions. 
The teacher also asks them to check their predictions made in the first listening/watching session at the 
beginning of the lessons on the current theme once more again  (D3.8, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS7). 
Then the teacher asks the students to read the relevant parts of the written version of the introductory 
digital story provided by the teacher by scanning  (reading very quickly) to check the main components 
and categories with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations with the 
headings that the teacher has previously written on the smart board/white board/blackboard in relation to 
the main components of the theme  ‘’ school life and education”  (D3.7, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.4, CS2.8). Students read the written extract from the story very quickly to check the main components 
corresponding to the headings that the teacher has written on the board and then they tick/circle/underline 
them on the list  (already provided by the teacher) at their seats  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4). The teacher could apply 
different versions of scanning activities such as finding important components, categories, and elements on 
a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever 
she/he likes  (LS1, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.8). In this way, they can understand the story in general better with the 
help of reading this time after the listening/watching sessions held earlier through the main elements and 
components by eliminating the irrelevant ones   (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, V3.4, LS1, LS2, CS2.16.1). Students share 
with the whole class the components they have found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the 
teacher to them  (D2.3, SELS2.1).  Then they discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class  (D2.4,D3.6, 
D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, V16.3, LS1, CS2.8). 
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY  (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  To read for the details for finding 
the new target vocabulary the teacher asks the students to read the written version of the introductory 
digital story  (or another written text for working on the target vocabulary) in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity  
(D3.2, SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the story/text and the second peer reads the other half 
silently in a given time  (V3.4, V4.1, V9.2, LS1, CS2.6). The teacher asks them to look out for new words whose 
meanings they do not know during this silent and detailed reading and asks them to look out for new  (target) 
words they have previously noted during the listening/watching sessions  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.6, D3.8, V3.3, V16.1, 
LS7). They are then asked to share these words with their peers without discussing their meanings in the 
text  (D2.4, D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V6.2).  The teacher starts working on the new  (target) words here. In this 
way, they have a detailed reading, understand the story better, and find the new  (target) words that they do 
not know to work on.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To separate key  (active) and non-key  (passive) target vocabulary 
in context: To check whether the students know any of the target key vocabulary about the content, the 
teacher asks them to say the new words whose meaning they do not know and which they have noticed 
and noted during their silent jigsaw reading session and the students do that  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, D3.2, D3.8, 
V3.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). When they say the words, the teacher writes them on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard by putting them on two lists. She/He writes the key  (active) target words on one list and the 
non-key  (passive) target words on the other list  (that she/he has already decided on earlier when planning 
the lesson).  She/He quickly covers the non-key words with examples, pictures, question-answers, however, 
spends more time on the key target words as described below  (D3.2, D3.6, V1.2, V3.4, LS2, LS4). 
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY:  To find “part/paragraph context clues” in the parts/paragraphs 
of the story  (context): The teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again, paying 
attention to which part of the story the unknown words that they do not know are in the utterances  (D3.2, 
D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4). He wants to introduce the meanings of the target key  (active) vocabulary 
related to the theme that the students do not know part by part. Then she/he asks them to read the first 

===== PDF_PAGE_737 =====
737
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
part/paragraph in the written version of the story  (or similar text) where the unknown words  (active key 
target vocabulary) appear  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS5, LS7, CS2.8). Then she/he asks them whether they 
understand the meaning of the part/paragraph  (D3.8, SELS3.1).  She/He asks them to discuss the meaning 
of the part/paragraph in pairs in general without knowing the meaning of each new target word and asks 
what helps them understand the meaning of the part/paragraph   (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, LS1, LS7). Students 
discuss the meaning of the part/paragraph in pairs  (D3.10, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.18) and report back to the 
class. The teacher takes notes on the board and writes what the part/paragraph is about in one word/clause/
sentence in the story  (V6.2, LS1, LS5, CS2.16.1). As each part/ paragraph covers a different but related piece 
of the whole topic, they realise that each part/paragraph contains new target words about a specific part of 
the whole theme. This helps them think about what each new target word in each part/paragraph could be 
about  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, CS2.16.1).  These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (5),  (6),  
(7), and  (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To find “sentence clues”/“the indirect context clues” for the target 
key  (active) words in the sentences in context: The teacher helps the students deal with each target key 
word by looking around these words in the sentences for collecting clues which can help them understand 
the meaning of these unknown target words. Starting from the first unknown target  (key) word, students 
are asked to look at the words around the target  (key) words  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.8, D3.9, D3.10, SELS3.1, LS1, 
CS2.1, CS2.16.3).  These clues could be linking words, adjectives, adverbs, determiners, suffixes, prefixes, 
time expressions that can help them understand the meaning of the unknown target word  (but they do not 
talk about the terminology and parts of speeches, instead they talk about the meanings and functions of 
these supportive surrounding words).  The teacher asks students to work in pairs to go through and list the 
“indirect clues” for each word  (D3.5,D3.7, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, CS2.7, CS2.17). When they finish working in 
pairs, the teacher goes through each word with the whole class and listens to what clues they have found 
to understand the meaning of the unknown target  (key) word in the sentences   (SELS3.1,V4.1, LS7). This is 
evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION AND SELECTION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To practise with the target words: To practise 
with the target vocabulary that the students work on through “sentence clues/indirect context clues”, the 
teacher checks their understanding again by showing them some realia that she/he has already provided  
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, LS5,CS2.5). The teacher shows them to the students and asks them to think about what 
they are and share them with their peers and then they check the answers with the whole class  (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.19). Then the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again and 
shows the corresponding pictures to the students when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
story, without stopping the video while they are watching the story  (LS2, LS4).  When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the realia/visual elements, etc. about the content and asks in the form of two 
options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that they already know  (D3.6, LS5, CS2.7, CS3.1). 
As they have studied the words through the “part/paragraph and sentences clues” in reading the text earlier, 
the students can choose the correct option when they hear the words for the related theme and they answer 
them after talking about them in pairs  (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, V6.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1). In this way they can 
further practise the meaning of the target words. These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  
(4),  (6),  (7),  (8) and  (9) in the section1.2 Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Further vocabulary practice through dialogical work: The 
teacher shows the story again, and from the beginning, whenever a target vocabulary item is mentioned 
in the story, the teacher stops the video and asks questions  (or lets the students ask and answer each 
other).  In this way, they are engaged in various dialogues and use the target words in these dialogues  (D2.3, 
D3.8, SELS2.1,V4.1, V6.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.8) . So, they revise and practise the meanings of the target  (key) 
vocabulary of the theme ‘’ school life and education” . This kind of technique could be applied with different 
and enjoyable activities according to the preference of the teacher. These activities are conducted in the 

===== PDF_PAGE_738 =====
738
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (2) and  (6) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Further activities and games are played at this 
stage to reinforce the meaning of the target words by using several materials including AI-based and web 2.0  
(D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4). They can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a 
problem with technology  (LS4).  These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8) and  
(9) in the section in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Consolidation of the target vocabulary: To further practise 
the target vocabulary, the teacher can prepare an activity with images/pictures of target vocabulary using 
the web 2.0 tools. She/He mixes these images/pictures for the target vocabulary items and puts them in 
a raffle programme by using a web 2.0 tools or a real box in the classroom. She/He asks the students to 
take turns to go to the white/black board and to draw a picture related to the target components of the 
current theme  (D2.3, SELS1.2).  Then students say several things about the items in the picture  (D1.5, 
D2.3, V3.4, LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.20). The teacher asks the students in their seats to take notes while the 
student at the white/black board talks about the picture she/he has drawn and to give feedback by raising 
yes/no cards, or correcting if there are mistakes, etc., and also repeat the sentences after him/her  (D3.9, 
D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4,CS3.3). When the student at the white/black board finishes, the teacher asks her/
him to put the picture under the right category that she/he has previously placed on the white/black board 
earlier. In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the concepts of the target  theme will be revised 
and consolidated once again through categorisation  (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5).  The teacher asks the students to 
write a definition or an example sentence in their personal dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their 
dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling and definitions  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, 
V6.2, CS2.20). Students’ learning can be checked and evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8) 
and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. When the vocabulary 
session is over, the teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the 
process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.1, SELS1.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  They also give feedback to each other  
(D2.1, D2.4, V6.1, V9.2, V10.3). 
ENG7.1.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS  (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE): 
Consciousness raising- discovery for the use of target language structures in inductive learning process: 
The teacher writes some sentences on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to read 
the sentences. Then she/he asks them to watch the introductory digital story again to draw their attention 
to the use of target grammatical structures of the theme ‘’ school life and education”  (D3.2, LS7) . The 
introductory digital story is replayed so that the students can notice the use of language with the target 
grammar structures  (LS2).  While watching the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes 
where the language with the target grammatical structures is used. When the students finish watching the 
introductory digital story again, the teacher asks the students to read and examine the example sentences 
carefully  (D3.2, D3.6, LS7, CS2.2, CS2.6, CS3.2). Then  she/he asks the students to work in pairs and find 
similar sentences with the target grammar structure (s) in the theme to those written by her/him on the 
smart board/blackboard/whiteboard  (SELS2.2, V 3 .4,  CS2.7).  The students look at the written version of 
the story and find similar sentences to those given by the teacher as examples  (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.7).  
The teacher then asks the students to discuss and list the common features in these sentences and what 
kind of things are used repeatedly and why they think they are used in that way  (D3.1, D3.6, D3.10, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, V4.2, CS2.4, CS3.3). Students examine the teacher’s example sentences, find the similar sentences in 
the written version of the story and discuss them by making a list of similarities and repeated commonalities  
(D3.6, SELS3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.7). The teacher asks the pairs to say what they have 
found  (D2.3, CS2.10).  As the pairs say what they have found, the teacher writes them on the board and 
gives the class time to look at them and think about them  (D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.3, CS2.10, CS2.16.1, 

===== PDF_PAGE_739 =====
739
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CS3.3). Then the teacher hands out a piece of paper and asks the students to make a rule about what they 
have noticed regarding the target structures. Students create a rule about the use of target grammatical 
structures of the theme by working in pairs and they read it to the class and give each other feedback on the 
rules  (D3.1, SELS2.2, SELS3.3, V3.3, LS1, CS2.9,CS2.16.1). The teacher shows a sentence that explains the 
rule correctly and asks the students to check if their rules are correct or the teacher gives a table in which 
the rule for the language with the target grammatical structure is incomplete. She/He asks the students 
to complete it by working in pairs  (D3.1, SELS2.2, V4.2) . Then they check the rule as the whole class and 
reflect on their experiences on how and how much they have learnt  (D2.4, SELS1.1, SELS1.3, V6.1, V10.3, 
LS1, CS2.15). This process is applied again for the other target grammatical structures in the theme if there 
are any. These activities are evaluated as described in items  (5),  (8) and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS IN CONTEXT:  Students practise the use of the 
language including the target grammatical structures: The teacher asks the students to work on grammar 
tasks she/he assigns  (D2.2, D2.3, V3.3, V3.4, CS2.13). These tasks could be the ones that the teacher 
provides. The teacher shows some other contents in the form of a dialogue, a short paragraph, a short story, 
etc. with sentences including the target grammar structures and asks the students to find the sentences 
with the target grammatical structures in them and asks if they understand them easily  (D3.2, D3.7, D3.10, 
CS2.13, CS2.20, CS3.3). She/He facilitates some oral or written activities and exercises for the students to 
further practise the target grammatical structures in context in pairs or groups  (SELS2.2).  She/He also 
facilitates more fun activities and games in which students talk, act out, mime, write, etc. with pen and 
paper, digital, AI-based, etc. materials and contexts so that they can practise and consolidate the target 
grammatical structures by selecting and using them accurately, efficiently, and naturally in context   (D2.5, 
D3.2, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, V4.4, LS2, CS2.13). They engage in several dialogic activities in which they share 
information, ideas and thoughts for communicating with their classmates. They exchange information and 
ideas to others by using target grammatical content  (D3.5, SELS2.2, V3.4) . When the session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the grammar discovery and 
use process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.3, V6.1, LS6,CS2.15). They also give feedback to each other  (D2.1, D2.4, 
V4.2, V10.3, SELS2.2). This is evaluated as described in items  (5),  (8) and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG7.1.R1
PREPARING FOR READING: The teacher facilitates reading activities throughout the theme‘’ school life and 
education”  from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the theme in various forms 
and amounts as it is explained above  (in the vocabulary section) in terms of how it is taught and when it 
needs to be clarified. Various reading styles such as silent reading, jigsaw reading and speed reading are 
used during the pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases. The ultimate aim of reading practice 
is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend 
and talk about the current content and related issues in a meaningful way  (V3.2, LS1, CS3.3). Students are 
provided a new text (s) to practise their reading skills through the current theme. They look at the surrounding 
visual materials, the title of the text and other supportive elements to guess the topic of the new reading 
content and they make predictions to be checked after reading the text  (D1.1, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS4, CS2.2, 
CS2.11, CS2.16.2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_740 =====
740
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.1.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING:  Students read the new reading text carefully 
to check their predictions made in the preparation session at the beginning of the lesson  (SELS1.2, V3.4, 
LS1, CS2.8).  Then they read the text very quickly  (scanning) to check the main components and categories 
with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations that are provided by the 
teacher  (V3.3,LS4, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.6).  They compare the components they have found in the text with 
those written by the teacher on the smart board/whiteboard related to the sub-themes of “extra-curricular 
activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days and celebrations”  (D3.6,V1.2, 
V3.4, V14.1, V14.3, LS2, LS5, CS2.7). Students read the text very quickly to check that the main components 
correspond to the headings written by the teacher on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on 
the list  (already provided by the teacher) at their desks  (V3.4, LS7, CS2.8). The teacher could use different 
versions of the scanning activities as described in the “listening/watching- comprehension” section above. 
In this way, they can understand the text in general better with the help of scanning  (CS2.16.1).  They share 
the components with the whole class  (SELS2.1) and then they discuss the accuracy of the results as a whole 
class   (D2.3, D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.2, LS1, CS2.8). 
ENG7.1.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Students read the new text silently in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity 
as they have done in the vocabulary session earlier   (D3.2, SELS2.2,V4.1). During the reading session, they 
look out for new words whose meanings they do not know  (if there are any, other than the target words 
previously covered in the listening/watching-comprehension and vocabulary recognition sessions)  (CS2.6).  
They work on the new words in the same way as in the vocabulary sessions. Then they deal with the semantic 
meaning conveyed in the text through display questions, then semi-closed activities and then open-ended 
activities   (V3.3, V6.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.6). They deal with the meaning by using strategies from the closed 
to the open-ended range to understand the theme ‘’ school life and education” in terms of the sub-themes of 
“extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days and celebrations” 
mean from different perspectives to build their own understandings  (D3.6, D3.8, SELS3.1, CS2.13).  The 
teacher facilitates a number of activities to help the students improve their comprehension, synthesis 
and evaluation skills after applying the knowledge they have gained from the reading process  (SELS3.2, 
SELS3.3, CS2.3, CS2.17, CS2.20).  After this stage, they work on activities to connect their knowledge and 
skills they have acquired about the current content with CLIL  (history, maths, science, etc.) and cultural 
issues to be able to enrich their perspectives on the current theme  (D3.5, SELS3.2, V1.2, V3.4, V14.1, V14.3, 
LS1, LS5, LS6,CS2.13, CS2.14).  In this way, they will have the opportunity to develop their knowledge and 
language competence through reading. They can have the opportunity to develop their cognitive, emotional, 
cultural, social, and creative skills through the process of reading  (SELS3.3, V7.2, CS2.20). 
ENG7.1.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING PROCESS: Students reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation 
to the whole reading-comprehension process  (SELS1.3).  They talk about them individually and then share 
them with the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1,V4.2, CS2.15). After the reflection and feedback 
session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas  (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, 
V4.3, V12.1, LS1). 
ENG7.1.W1.
PREPARATION FOR WRITING-EXPRESSION:  Students are facilitated throughout the theme with writing 
activities, from the first lesson to the last when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount of writing. At the beginning of the writing process, students recall their pre-existing 

===== PDF_PAGE_741 =====
741
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
knowledge about the current content to make a link between what they know and what they are going to 
write about  (D3.2, SELS1.1, CS2.12).  This includes examining all the audio/visual sources and elements 
provided for understanding the writing task  (V3.2,LS1, CS2.2). 
ENG7.1.W2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL : Students listen  (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the writing task they have been given  (CS2.2).  These are limited and short pieces of writing to see how the 
language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the written language, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the  theme ‘’ school life and education” . 
Initially, they practise the language in a more controlled way, writing to repeat or simply explain what they 
have heard and seen and/ or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they 
try to understand how the language is used in the target content by examining the model/example writing 
carefully  (V3.4, LS2, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the 
knowledge they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in 
relation to current content in their later free writing tasks  (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, LS1). 
ENG7.1.W3.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WRITTEN CONTENT : After working on a sample/model writing task, students 
begin to produce/construct similar tasks of their own  (V16.1).  They participate in several writing activities 
individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class  (D2.3, SELS2.2, V4.1).  Their products could range from 
writing a word to a phrase, a clause to a full sentence, a group of sentences to a short paragraph, an essay to 
a short story. These writing activities will help students to produce and display meaningful written language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme as in others  (SELS2.1, LS1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.1.W4.
PRACTISING BY PRODUCING WRITTEN CONTENT: Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
essays, diaries/journals, blogs, scripts for plays, documentaries, films, etc. to express their ideas, thoughts, 
and feelings in relation to the current topic  (D1.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.20).  They take part in 
individual or collaborative projects to improve their writing skills together with social, cultural, cognitive, and 
affective aspects  (D1.4, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2). Within this variety, they can find the opportunities to 
show how they can use the language that they have learnt to describe and comment on the current content 
for developing new ideas about them in different genres of writing, according to their potential needs for 
expressing themselves and communication with others  (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V1.2, V3.4, V14.1,V14.3, LS5, 
CS2.14, CS3.3).  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further 
writing practice  (D2.5,LS9). 
ENG7.1.W5.
PROCESS WRITING: Controlled writing of words, sentences and paragraphs turns to process writing with 
the support of the teacher’s and also peers’ feedback in the theme. This process is expanded and supported 
with additional activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, etc. to practise further by 
writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, 
enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9,CS2.13, CS2.14).  A. All 
the content is formed as contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests, 
and language level. Students improve their writing after reviewing the feedback they receive and this spiral, 
cyclical, and ongoing work becomes a progressive path for students  (D3.1, SELS1.2, V12.3, LS1, CS3.1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_742 =====
742
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.1.W6.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students communicate their ideas, thoughts 
and feelings about the sub-themes of “extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations 
at school; national days and celebrations” through their writing tasks  (V1.2,V3.4, V14.1, V14.3, CS3.3). They 
can use AI-based technologies for various activities, by having access to authentic materials. They can also 
produce digital written materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways to interact and 
communicate with peers and/or other people inside and outside school by using the language including 
target words, language chunks, and the social language expressions for the relevant theme in their writing  
(D3.3, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V11.1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). All writing activities can be evaluated as described 
in items  (3),  (4),  (5),  (9),  (10),  (11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.
ENG7.1.W7.
REFLECTING THROUGH WRITING:  The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and 
feelings in relation to the whole writing-expression process  (SELS1.3)  and students talk about them 
individually and share them with the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3,SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15).  After the reflection 
and feedback session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas  (SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1,LS1). 
SPEAKING-EXPRESSION
Practising through speaking from controlled to communicative stages: The teacher facilitates speaking 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the last. Speaking activities support students’ 
learning and help them to produce meaningful language for personal expression and communication with 
others, by using the language including the target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions of the theme.  (V3.4, V4.5, LS1, LS5). 
ENG7.1.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING : In the beginning, students recall their background knowledge about the 
theme through listening/watching and/or reading and then they talk about it  (SELS1.1, CS2.12).  Students 
practise the target language items in a controlled way, by saying, repeating, explaining what they hear and 
see in the context, for instance, in the introductory digital story and the listening and reading sections in 
different contexts  (SELS3.2).  Then they can expand their language use and practice in each section by 
increasing the amount of speaking they do  (D1.3, V3.4, LS1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.1.S2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL:  Students listen  (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the speaking task they have been given  (CS2.2).  These are limited and short pieces of speaking to see 
how the language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the spoken 
language, after hearing them through listening activities in the theme. Initially, they practise the language in 
a more controlled way, repeating some utterances, simply explaining what they have heard and seen, and/
or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to understand how 
the language is used in the target content by examining the speaking model/example carefully  (V1.2, V3.4, 
V14.1,V14.3, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge 
they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to 
the current theme in their later free speaking tasks  (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, V3.4, LS5). 

===== PDF_PAGE_743 =====
743
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.1.S3.
PRODUCTION OF MEANINGFUL AND ACCURATE CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons, the teacher 
prepares new contexts for the students in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading the language 
including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme ‘’ school life and education”  
in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS3.2, V7.2, LS9) . These newly created contents are 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. 
They participate in such speaking activities individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class  (D3.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.20). 
ENG7.1.S4.
CONSTRUCTING MEANINGFUL SPOKEN CONTENT:  Students produce various spoken content and their 
products could range from producing a simple utterance including a word to a phrase, a clause to a full 
sentence, a group of sentences to a short speech, a dialogue to a spoken presentation  (SELS3.3, V3.4, 
CS2.20). These speaking activities will help students to produce accurate and meaningful spoken language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme ‘’ school life and education”  as in others  (D3.6, SELS2.1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.1.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Collaborative and communicative activities 
are designed and used to revise and consolidate the whole theme ‘’ school life and education”  on the sub-
themes of “extra-curricular activities at school; competitions and celebrations at school; national days and 
celebrations”  (V4.5, LS5, CS2.13, CS2.14). Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further speaking practice throughout the theme  (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.1, V4.2, LS4, 
LS9). Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such 
as dialogues, speeches, short texts, presentations, etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people inside and/or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
chunks, and social language expressions for the current theme  (SELS2.3, V3.4, V7.1, V7.2, LS1, CS2.20). 
AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. 
They can also produce digital materials and projects for speaking at school and at home through recordings  
(D3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V7.3, V11.1, LS2).  All these speaking activities can be evaluated as described in 
items  (1),  (2),  (3),  (4),  (5),  (7),  (8),  (9),  (10), and  (11) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
ENG7.1.S6.
REFLECTING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students are encouraged to reflect individually or collaboratively in 
groups on their own individual learning  (SELS1.3) or on their collaborative learning in pairs, groups or as a 
whole class collaboratively  (D2.3, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  The activities will help and support students in these 
feedback and reflection sessions. Their feedback is shared with peers and the teacher and takes the form 
of interactive and ongoing feedback that can help their own improvement  (SELS1.2, SELS2.1) and also they 
contribute to the improvement of their peers in their learning processes  (V4.1, V4.3,V12.1, V12.3, LS1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_744 =====
744
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To engage students in conversations, foster their creativity and presentation skills in English by 
using the target vocabulary and the language with grammatical structures (Simple Present Tense- Modal/
Must)
Activity: Role-play
The teacher prepares some questions (e.g., How do you usually feel when you win a prize? How do you 
celebrate when you become first? What must a person do to break a record?) and begins the activity by giving 
a situation (e.g., There is a student. She/He is good at swimming, and she/he usually wins the competitions) 
for the role-play activity. Then she/he divides the class into pairs and asks the students to make an interview 
with this student by using the questions she has handed out to each pair and answer them meaningfully. 
The paired students work together, and they act out their dialogues; one of the pairs as the swimmer, the 
other one as an interviewer. The students give a ‘stars’ rating (1-5) for their peers’ performance and a short 
explanation by completing sentence beginnings, e.g., “I gave you ________ because your __________ is good, 
but you should ___________”. The teacher provides constructive feedback on students’ performance in terms 
of accurate and adequate use of target vocabulary and grammar and their presentation. Students reflect on 
their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To engage students in conversations, foster their creativity and presentation skills in English by 
using the target vocabulary and the language with grammatical structures (Simple Present Tense- Modal/
Must)
Activity: Role-play
The teacher prepares some questions and incomplete forms of the answers (e.g., How do you usually feel 
when you win a prize? - I feel ……… How do you celebrate when you become first?- I blow …….., What must 
a person do to break a record?- We must …….) and begins the activity by giving a situation ( eg., There is a 
student. She/He is good at swimming, and she/he usually wins the competitions) for the role-play activity. 
Then she/he divides the class into pairs and asks the students to make an interview with this student by 
using the questions she has handed out to each pair and answer them meaningfully. The paired students 
work together, and they act out their dialogues; one of the pairs as the swimmer, the other one as an 
interviewer. The students give a ‘stars’ rating (1-5) for their peers’ performance and a short explanation by 
completing sentence beginnings, e.g., “I gave you ________ because your __________ is good, but you should 
___________”. The teacher provides constructive feedback on students’ performance in terms of accurate 
and adequate use of target vocabulary and grammar and their presentation. Students reflect on their 
thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_745 =====
745
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 2: CLASSROOM LIFE & LEARNING
Sub-themes: Technological tools for learning; learning 
activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-
1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)
This theme is centred on the concept of “classroom life and learning” and covers 
the sub-themes of “technological tools for learning; learning activities in the 
classroom; cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)”. These 
components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning process through the 
contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological 
features, and social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities 
are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are 
tailored to align with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and 
preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the 
knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively use English in their 
daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 14 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.4. Self-Efficacy, D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.1. Empathy, 
D2.2. Responsibility, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, D2.5. Playfulness,  D3.1. 
Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.4. Seeking the Truth, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning, 
D3.9. Doubting, D3.10. Critical Perspective
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1 Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2 Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V20. Benevolence

===== PDF_PAGE_746 =====
746
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Visual Arts, Music, Physical Education and 
Sports, Technology and Design
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information 
Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. 
Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based 
Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, 
CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.18. Argumentation Skill, CS2.19. 
Logical Auditing Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, 
CS3.2. Problem Solving Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill
 

===== PDF_PAGE_747 =====
747
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 7 is structured based on inductive approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.7.2.L1.  Students can prepare and get ready for listening (to)/watching about the current content on 
“classroom life and learning with technological tools for learning; learning activities in the 
classroom; cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)”.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience about the current theme and 
content to recall their background knowledge by investigating it carefully.
b) Students identify significant and necessary relationships and connections between their pre-
existing knowledge, their past experience and the clues to the current content by responding 
to meaningful questions about it (without speaking Turkish or using a translation).
c) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by using their pre-existing 
knowledge and past experience of the content.
d) Students make rational predictions about the current content by looking at the supplementary 
visual elements provided. 
ENG.7.2.L2.  Students can bring together the information in the current content on “classroom life and 
learning with technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal 
numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)”.
a) Students identify the main topic of the current content in general by listening (to)/watching it 
as a whole in its context. 
b) Students recognise the significant details and basic components of the current content within 
the whole by listening (to) and watching the whole content carefully to notice them.
ENG.7.2.L3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “classroom life 
and learning with technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal 
numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)”.
a) Students check their initial predictions about the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between their self-predictions and the clues provided as visuals surrounding 
the content.
b) Students make significant and necessary classifications in the current content that affect the 
meaning of the generally perceived content.
c) Students make significant and necessary comparisons in the generally perceived current 
content to highlight differences between two or more different things by using visuals, ensuring 
clarity and meaning.
d) Students recognise significant branching, linear or spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content.
e) Students make essential inferences and deductions to understand the meaning of the 
generally perceived current content better.
f) Students strongly recognise the holistic meaning formed by the components, comparisons, 
classifications, and details related to the current content.
g) Students construct a detailed understanding of the meaning of the current content through 
prior classifications, comparisons, and inferences/deductions.
h) Students position, internalise and personalise current content in an individualised, age-
appropriate and level-appropriate way.

===== PDF_PAGE_748 =====
748
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.7.2.L4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to 
the listening (to)/watching process about the current content on “classroom life and learning 
with technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 
(500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)” in relation to themselves or others, both individually 
and/or with others.
a) Students individually convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings 
that are critically reviewed in relation to the current listening (to)/watching contents and the 
process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current listening (to)/watching content 
and process with others.
c) Students produce new audio/visual products individually by revising their personal work 
after participating in reflective activities related to the listening (to)/watching process of the 
current content.
ENG.7.2.P1.  Students can select and use target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases, clauses, and sentences in utterances authentically, 
naturally, and accurately in the current content about “classroom life and learning with 
technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-
1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)” to develop holistic and conscious pronunciation skills after 
recognising them in context. 
a) Students recognise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases and sentences in utterances within the current content by 
listening (to)/ watching it, first as a whole and then with pauses.
b) Students repeat utterances, including target sentences, clauses, phrases, and words with 
target theme-specific sounds by considering phonological aspects such as pronunciation 
and intonation accurately and naturally in the content several times as a whole class and 
then in groups and individually.
c) Students talk about the current content by taking part in small group conversations by 
paying attention to select and use accurate phonological aspects such as pronunciation, 
intonation, stress, and other features as they are understood.
d) Students reflect personally on their pronunciation and other target phonological aspects 
such as intonation after recording and listening to group conversations about the target 
content.
e) Students evaluate feedback from others and their personal feedback and reflection by 
listening to or watching the audio/visual content again to check for accuracy.
f) Students utilise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of utterances including target sounds of the current content, appropriately, effectively, 
accurately, naturally, automatically, and consciously when communicating with others in 
different contexts.
ENG.7.2.R1.  Students can prepare for reading the content on “classroom life and learning with technological 
tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal 
numbers (50-100)” efficiently and effectively.
a) Students recall and activate significant pre-existing knowledge and past experiences that 
can be related to the current theme and content through careful exploration. 
b) Students recognise significant relationships between pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to current content.
c) Students make strong preliminary predictions about the current content based on explored 
and recognised relationships.

===== PDF_PAGE_749 =====
749
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring and examining the 
audio-visual clues in relation to it.
ENG.7.2.R2.  Students can bring information together about the current content on “classroom life and 
learning with technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal 
numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)” through skimming, scanning and detailed 
reading.
a) Students skim the current content by looking very quickly and carefully at the surrounding 
visual materials to identify its general focus.
b) Students scan the current content by reading it silently and quickly to find key and major 
components.
c) Students read the current content again silently and carefully to examine any significant 
semantic and structural details.
d) Students examine the semantic details in the content carefully to check the accuracy of their 
initial predictions.
ENG.7.2.R3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “classroom life 
and learning with technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal 
numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)”.
a) Students classify significant and necessary elements of the current content in a meaningful 
way.
b) Students compare significant and key elements of the current content with each other or with 
similar ones in a meaningful way.
c) Students recognise significant and basic spiral, causal, and logical relationships in the current 
content through careful examination and analysis.
d) Students make meaningful inferences from information in the current content by examining 
it critically.
e) Students internalise their meaningful inferences from information in the current content in an 
individualised way appropriate to their age and language level.
ENG.7.2.R4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related 
to the reading process about the current content on “classroom life and learning with 
technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-
1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or 
with others.
a) Students convey individually their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content 
and process with others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
ENG.7.2.V1.  Students can select and use target vocabulary efficiently, effectively, and accurately, based 
on the current content about “classroom life and learning with technological tools for learning; 
learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)” 
after recognising them in context and developing their conscious and inductive vocabulary 
learning skills.
a) Students make predictions about the main topic of the current content by identifying “general 
contextual clues” from the visual, audio, and written preparation materials provided during the 
“listening/watching for gist” and/or reading for “skimming” sessions.

===== PDF_PAGE_750 =====
750
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students check the accuracy of the predictions related to the “general contextual clue” by 
listening to, watching, and/or reading the audio, visual, and/or written content in context.
c) Students search the target audio/visual, and/or written content by scanning to find key 
components of the theme.
d) Students listen/watch the content carefully and/or read it silently to identify and underline/
circle target unknown words.
e) Students separate target (key-active) words from the other (non-key-passive) words in the 
target content.
f) Students examine relevant target words, phrases, and expressions in the current content to 
understand how and where they are used.
g) Students determine paragraph context clues to identify the topics of the parts/paragraphs 
containing unknown target words.
h) Students discuss the meaning of the target words by finding indirect sentence context clues in 
the assigned sentences of the parts/paragraphs of the content.
i) Students determine the correct meanings of the target words in the current content in pairs 
or groups by comparing the meanings/definitions proposed.
j) Students confirm the accuracy of the meanings/definitions of the target words in the current 
content by consulting with the teacher, the class and/or by using printed or digital dictionaries.
k) Students make use of the target words of the current theme in a range of semantically 
associated contextual activities and tasks accurately, naturally, authentically, and 
appropriately.
l) Students make use of the target words of the current theme accurately, naturally, appropriately 
and effectively through careful selection when communicating with others.
ENG.7.2.G1.  Students can select and use target grammatical language items efficiently, effectively, and 
accurately, based on the current content about “classroom life and learning with technological 
tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal 
numbers (50-100)”, after recognising them in context and developing their conscious and 
inductive grammaring skills through consciousness-raising and discovery.
a) Students listen to, watch, and/or read the audio, visual, and written current content presented 
in context that introduces the general use of the target language structures in the current 
theme.
b) Students examine example sentences provided by the teacher or instructional materials 
including target grammatical items to see how the target grammatical structure(s) of the 
target theme is/are used to construct a meaning or contribute to meaning.
c) Students analyse current audio, visual, and/or written content presented in context to identify 
sentences similar to those provided as examples.
d) Students find the commonalities between the sentences identified and those exemplified by 
the teacher or materials through careful comparison in pairs and/or groups.
e) Students discover the characteristics of the commonalities in the sentences in the current 
content by discussing them in pairs or groups as an awareness/consciousness-raising activity.
f) Students formulate rule(s) about the same/target grammar structure(s) of the current theme 
based on their observations and discussions in pairs or groups.
g) Students engage in contextual activities on the use of target grammatical structures 
(grammaring) of the current theme to explain and justify the grammar rule(s) they have 
discovered.
h) Students practise to consolidate their understanding of the target grammar that they 
discovered by selecting accurate and meaningful items in meaningful and contextualised 
activities.

===== PDF_PAGE_751 =====
751
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
i) Students produce accurate and unique verbal or written content by using target grammar 
consciously and in a natural way, without thinking about the rules.
j) Students produce new spoken/written content by using the target grammatical structures 
efficiently, authentically, automatically, and naturally in context when communicating with 
others without thinking about rules.
ENG.7.2.W1.  Students can prepare for writing efficiently and accurately based on the current content 
about “classroom life and learning with technological tools for learning; learning activities in 
the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)”.
a) Students relate pre-existing knowledge and experiences from initial listening, watching, and 
reading processes to current content by examining and activating them.
b) Students understand what the current writing task requires in terms of content and purpose in 
relation to the current content accurately by applying pre-existing knowledge and experiences, 
following guided instructions.
ENG.7.2.W2.  Students can analyse and understand a provided model to guide them in producing similar 
writing tasks related to the content on “classroom life and learning with technological tools 
for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal 
numbers (50-100)”.
a) Students grasp the significant and basic components of the content in the model/sample 
provided for the assigned writing task, including word selection and use, grammar selection 
and use, and other details such as type, style, and meaning as required.
ENG.7.2.W3.  Students can construct new written content on “classroom life and learning with technological 
tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal 
numbers (50-100)” based on their understanding of the model(s) provided.
a) Students share their ideas and thoughts by brainstorming through collaborative discussion to 
generate ideas for the new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current 
theme.
b) Students plan how the knowledge and ideas generated during the brainstorming session can 
be applied to their new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current theme.
c) Students conduct preliminary research relevant to the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) 
writing task on the current content, considering the type of writing, age appropriateness, and 
language level.
d) Students produce a well-organised and detailed draft relevant to the (prepared and/or 
unprepared) type of writing and appropriate for the age and language level.
e) Students organise and develop contextual materials relevant to the type of the assigned task 
(prepared and/or unprepared) and appropriate to age and language level.
f) Students modify the content they produce for the assigned writing task in a coherent and 
meaningful way, consistent with the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) type of writing, 
and appropriate to the age and language level.
ENG.7.2.W4.  Students can practise producing written content based on the current theme “classroom 
life and learning with technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; 
cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)”.
a) Students present relevant supportive materials appropriate to the assigned (prepared and/
or unprepared) writing task, considering the type of writing and appropriate to the age and 
language level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and strategies for the assigned (prepared 
and/or unprepared) writing task, considering its writing type and appropriate to their age and 
language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_752 =====
752
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students use target words and grammatical language structures accurately and appropriately 
in their writing tasks, by selecting necessary and appropriate ones in line with the assigned 
type of writing and appropriate to the age and language level.
d) Students express their messages about the current content clearly to the reader in the 
assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task.
ENG.7.2.W5.  Students can engage in the process of writing related to the content on “classroom life and 
learning with technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal 
numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)”.
a) Students review the feedback from the teacher and/or peers critically on their prepared and/
or unprepared writing task(s).
b) Students revise to reorganise the written content of their prepared and/or unprepared task 
based on the feedback received from the teacher and/or peers.
c) Students refine and develop their written content produced for their prepared/unprepared 
writing task through the iterative feedback process.
ENG.7.2.W6.  Students can reconstruct their writing about the current theme on “classroom life and 
learning with technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal 
numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)” to communicate effectively about it.
a) Students adapt and use individually internalised information in current or similar content by 
selecting and reorganising it meaningfully in written form as necessary when communicating 
with other people in different contexts.
b) Students exchange information and ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge and content with others.
ENG.7.2.W7.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the writing 
process about the current content on “classroom life and learning with technological tools for 
learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers 
(50-100)” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings they review 
critically in relation to their current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current writing-expression content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce their new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current writing-expression content and process.
ENG.7.2.S1.  Students can prepare themselves to speak meaningfully, fluently, and efficiently about the 
current content on “classroom life and learning with technological tools for learning; learning 
activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)”.
a) Students relate current content by analysing pre-existing knowledge and experiences from 
earlier listening, watching, and reading sessions to associate them with the current content.
ENG.7.2.S2.  Students can analyse and understand the model content related to “classroom life and learning 
with technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers 
(500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)” to support the production of spoken language.
a) Students grasp what the provided model/example is about with the help of audio, visual, and/
or written elements after listening, watching, and/or reading the current content.
ENG.7.2.S3.  Students can produce meaningful and accurate spoken content related to the current theme 
on “classroom life and learning with technological tools for learning; learning activities in the 
classroom; cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)”.

===== PDF_PAGE_753 =====
753
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students recognise which form and type of spoken content is expected and assigned based on 
the model/example about the current theme for both prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations through careful examination.
b) Students conduct preliminary research on the expected and assigned content to be produced 
for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students develop a draft outline in accordance with the assigned prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations as presented in the model/example, appropriate to the age and language 
level based on the current theme.
d) Students organise supplementary audio-visual materials in accordance with the assigned 
task as presented in the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations 
and appropriate to their age and language level. 
e) Students organise information related to the current content to be presented, appropriate to 
the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
f) Students critically review their prepared presentation content for accuracy, coherence, and 
appropriateness to audience and context in prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.7.2.S4.  Students can construct meaningful spoken content about “classroom life and learning with 
technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-
1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)” through efficient and meaningful practice.
a) Students make spoken content clear and understandable to listeners by selecting and using 
style and form appropriate to age and language level in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
b) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using materials appropriate to the 
context, age, language level, style, and type of discourse, similar to those presented in the 
model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using target vocabulary and language 
structures similar and/or appropriate to those presented in the model/example considering 
their age, language level, context, style, and type of discourse for prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations.
d) Students convey relevant explicit, implicit, and/or complex messages related to the current 
content clearly in context to the listeners by using appropriate material and body language in 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
e) Students convey their messages about the current content clearly to the listeners by 
incorporating all the necessary semantic elements in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
ENG.7.2.S5.  Students can reconstruct the information about “classroom life and learning with technological 
tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal 
numbers (50-100)” when communicating with others.
a) Students use the same or similar information presented in the current content in verbal or 
written forms in different contexts by reorganising it meaningfully, accurately, effectively, 
efficiently, functionally, and individually as required.
b) Students engage in verbal and/or written communication by sharing the reconstructed 
meaningful information about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_754 =====
754
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.7.2.S6.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the speaking 
process about the current content on “classroom life and learning with technological tools for 
learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers 
(50-100)” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students reveal their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they review critically 
in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
critically review in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process with 
others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_755 =====
755
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
CLASSROOM LIFE & LEARNING
Sub-themes: Technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-
1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for technological tools for learning:
Nouns: An app, a mobile device, a laptop, a printer, a screen, a speaker, a tablet, a tool, a website, a code, an 
error, electricity, a virus, an external memory.
Verbs: To connect, to print.
Adjectives: Digital.
Vocabulary for learning activities in the classroom:
Nouns: A circle, a cross, a decision, a discussion, a memory, a speech, a context, a degree, understanding, 
streaming, household.
Verbs: To circle, to express, to succeed, to present, to pronounce, to be good at, to be bad at, to play (a 
critical role). 
Adverbs: Correctly, sure.
Adjectives: Confusing.
Vocabulary for cardinal numbers (500-1000)
Vocabulary for ordinal numbers (50-100)
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will be 
age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A table 
for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Simple Present Tense vs Present Progressive Tense: (I use an app every day to check my schedule. The 
students are expressing their opinions in the discussion right now).
-Question tags for the Simple Present Tense and Present Progressive Tense: (You use a website to learn new 
things, don’t you? They are using a tablet to search for information, aren’t they?)
-Will for help: (I will fix the virus problem on your computer).
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of the Simple Present Tense vs Present Progressive Tense: Distinguishing regular actions, habits, 
general truths, permanent situations and actions happening at the moment of speaking, and temporary 
activities.
-Use of question tags for the Simple Present Tense and Present Progressive Tense: Confirming information 
or actions that are happening at the moment.
-Use of will for help: Offering help.
Target Social Language in Use:
No cutting corners at school, do your best at school!
I never throw in the towel, I always try again! 

===== PDF_PAGE_756 =====
756
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Slow down and double-check your work!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Intonation of negative statements
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “classroom life and learning” and its components such as “technological 
tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-
100)” is present in almost all languages. People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing 
knowledge with them and transfer it to their new language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school 
student will know what “classroom life and learning” and its components such as “technological tools for 
learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)” means 
but will not know how to say them in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing 
curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, 
and learn the new information more easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts
Technology, tools, technological tools, technological tools for learning, learning activities, learning activities 
in the classroom, cardinal numbers,  ordinal numbers.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will prepare a digital slideshow about “Classroom Life and Learning”.  
They will include three slides: one featuring technological tools they use for learning, another describing at 
least three classroom learning activities they enjoy, and a final slide using cardinal numbers (500-1000) and 
ordinal numbers (50-100) creatively in sentences. For instance, they might mention the number of students in 
their school or the rank of favourite activities. Students will present their slideshows to the class, explaining 
their content clearly and briefly. The assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, 
and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “classroom life and learning” and its components such as 
“technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal 
numbers (50-100)”. As they are lower-secondary school students in year 7 (seven), they can know what 
“classroom life and learning” and these components mean in their own language as it is known that almost 
all people who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with 
them and transfer it to their new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these 
things in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this 
existing knowledge in their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily 
in a foreign language, in this case English.
As they are students in year 7 of lower-secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about 
“classroom life and learning” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/
or years. These grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning 
of the year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the 
current theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about the “classroom life and learning” and its components such as “technological tools for learning; 
learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers (50-100)”. Recalling and 
practising with relevant vocabulary and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous 

===== PDF_PAGE_757 =====
757
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
years would be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “classroom 
life and learning”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary and grammatical items 
from the previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In 
this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are 
able to understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the 
current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge 
and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated 
by rubrics throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students are asked to recall the concept of “classroom life and learning” by remembering their pre-existing 
background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with 
the current activities in the theme in English without saying anything in Turkish and without translating 
anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English. To remind them 
of their pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, many materials 
such as “a scene from a short film, a passage from a book, a part from a personal diary (journal),  a part of a 
story, a collection of pictures, a part of an animation, a poster, an excerpt from a video etc.” related to this 
content can be shared with the class before the main teaching/learning flow begins. The materials about 
the current concept would give a general idea of the theme. Students are work on the material according to 
the instructions and try to grasp it. The teacher tries to check if they have an idea about the topic of the new 
theme with several activities. When they have finished working on them, the teacher asks them in English 
if they have understood what has been in the material. She/He asks them to write a related words that they 
already know (learnt in previous years) in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/ box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways for checking their comprehension could be tried by the teacher.
They wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the theme, the digital 
introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme “classroom life and learning”  in the classroom, to prepare the students 
emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as 
an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their 
well-being  (D1.5, V12.1, V13.4). This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/
singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote, 
a very short story, watching a pantomime/online story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current 
theme and does not require any knowledge of the current theme in English  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.4, V7.2, 
V13.2, LS4). That is only for relaxation and preparation for the lesson.
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills are used in an integrated way around a central topic “classroom life and learning” and 
the sub-themes of “technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers  
(500-1000); ordinal numbers  (50-100)”, allowing students to build background knowledge through receptive 
skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful 
and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they 
are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a 
closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development 
and to increase communicative competence. The theme “classroom life and learning” is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) 
with the help of their grammar, vocabulary and phonological selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_758 =====
758
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.2.L1.
PREPARATION FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students prepare to access the introduction to the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to remember what they have done during the “establishing links” 
session for recalling background knowledge about the concept of “classroom life and learning”, where they 
watched a short film scene prepared for that section  (which is not a part of the introductory digital story of 
the theme)  (D3.2, V3.4,LS1, LS2, LS4).  They remember what they already know about “classroom life and
learning” to prepare themselves to work on guessing the topic of the current theme, “classroom life and 
learning with technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers  (500-
1000); ordinal numbers  (50-100)”  (V3.2, V11.1, V16.1, LS1, LS5) .  They prepare to access the main materials 
of the theme for having connections by making predictions based on the short film in the “establishing links” 
session  (D3.8, V3.3, LS1, LS4). 
ENG7.2.L2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER BY LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students collect “general context clues” to 
understand the whole content by looking at visual clues before listening  (to)/watching. The teacher asks the 
students to look at any visual material such as pictures, posters, and realia related to the current content 
on “classroom life and learning with technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; 
cardinal numbers (500-1000); ordinal numbers  (50-100)” to identify the topic of the content and to answer 
the question “What is the whole content about  (D3.6, V3.2, V11.1, V16.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.2). They can 
realise that there might be different elements related to this concept  (D2.1, V4.5). The teacher asks them 
to look at the visuals quickly to make predictions about the topic of the whole theme by using the “listening  
(to)/watching for gist” strategy before listening/watching the main visual material of the theme, which is the 
introductory digital story  (D3.8, V4.5, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.11). The teacher asks the students to read the title 
of the theme and asks them to brainstorm by thinking about which words they already know and whichwords 
come to mind in connection with the title  (D3.4, LS2, CS2.12, CS2.16.2) . She/He reminds them not to ask 
the meanings of any new/target words they do not know at this stage of the lesson. She/He reminds them 
that this is just a guessing activity to guess the general topic/theme of the context by using the words they 
already know and that there will be time to work on the new words of the current content later  (D1.4, V12.2). 
At this stage, some guessing games can be played to guess the main topic of the current content/theme by 
using the clues from the additional visuals such as pictures, posters, etc. related to the content, prepared 
and produced by the teacher, by using web 2.0 tools  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS2, LS4, CS2.12). 
ENG7.2.L3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  Students identify and recognise the topic of the 
current theme by listening  (to)/watching the introductory digital story that provides a context for the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the introductory digital story to recognise the 
topic of the theme in general  (This is a kind of preparation to work on the target key vocabulary in the later 
stages of the lesson (s)  (D3.2, V3.4). The teacher asks the students to recall the work done with visuals  (the 
scene from a short film) in the “establishing links” session about the current context shown earlier during the 
listening  (to)/ watching session  (D3.2, LS2). Students watch the digital introductory story and consolidate 
the identification of the target theme as a whole  (CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that 
the students can hear/ see the context as a whole and understand the theme holistically.  (D3.1, V3.2, V11.1, 
V16.1, LS2, LS4, LS5). 
MAKING MEANING THROUGH THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE THEME BY LISTENING/W ATCHINfG:  
Students find and identify the main components of the current content by listening  (to)/watching the 
context quickly through scanning. The teacher organises a scanning activity to find out the components as 
the basic and most important details of the current content through the introductory digital story to help 

===== PDF_PAGE_759 =====
759
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
students learn and know more about the current theme. She/He asks the students to listen and watch the 
story again without stopping, by scanning/looking for any relevant words or concepts that are heard in the 
story  (D3.6, V3.4, LS2, LS4, LS7). The teacher hands out a sheet to the students on which there is a list of 
words/phrases, etc. to tick, circle or underline. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard through 
watching the story very quickly without stopping. The teacher could apply different versions of scanning 
activities such as finding important elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which 
elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, LS1, CS2.4 ).  In this 
way, they will be able to understand the story in general through the main elements and components by 
eliminating the irrelevant ones. Students share with the whole class the words and components they have 
found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the teacher to them  (D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.4). Then they 
discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class   (SELS2.2, CS2.8).  This is evaluated as described in 
items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After having 
watched the introductory digital story, the teacher places five headings on the smart board/whiteboard/
blackboard which are on the target vocabulary list of the related theme as clues to the components of the 
current theme  (D3.7, V3.2, V11.1, V16.1, LS5). She/He places a corresponding picture next to each component 
and writes the name of each heading. She/He guides students to understand the heading of each category 
with the help of pictures. The teacher asks the students to work with the words they already know during 
this phase of the lesson  (SELS1.2).  Students work on these categories with the help of the scenes from the 
introductory digital story  (D3.6, LS2, LS4). The teacher reads the headings aloud a few times by pointing to 
the corresponding pictures on the board and the students repeat them. Then the students say the headings 
all together. For working on the sub-themes of “technological tools for learning; learning activities in the 
classroom; cardinal numbers  (500-1000); ordinal numbers  (50-100)”further, the teacher asks volunteers to 
go to the board and choose the picture  (already provided by the teacher) to stick/pin/ drag it on the white/
black board or the smart board  (if the teacher asks)  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.2,V3.4, V20.4, LS2, LS4).  
Then, they say the headings  (components) together as a whole class. In this way, the main components of 
the theme “classroom life and learning” are introduced to the students in English  (LS5).  At this stage, the 
meanings of the target words are not studied, but the categorisation of the basic components contributes 
to their recognition of the concept in general. The teacher could ask the students to decide which words in 
the introductory digital story they do not know and to note them while reading the text later in the reading 
session  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.8, SELS1.1, V3.4). This could be evaluated as described in items  (1),  (2),  (3),  (6)  
(7),  (8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. All this work 
helps them understand the main categories through classifications and also the inferences they make while 
listening to and watching the introductory digital story and/or examining the picture related to the content. In 
this way, they recognise and comprehend the main concept as a whole through categorisation, comparison, 
and inference  (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5, V3.3, LS2, LS4, LS7). 
 
ENG7.2.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS : Students check the accuracy of their prior 
guesses, reflect on their ideas and feelings about the listening/watching session, and give feedback to each 
other. After the students listen  (to)/watch the introductory digital story to find the main components of 
the theme, the teacher asks them whether their guesses they made during the “establishing links” session, 
looking at visuals session, and their first listening  (to)/watching session have been correct  (D3.8,V4.2, V4.3, 
LS2, LS4).  As they have already seen a scene from a short film created about the concept of the current 
theme, during the “establishing links” session earlier, and looked at some supplementary visuals  (pictures, 
the title of the theme) and also they saw the picture related to the introductory digital story they can easily 
answer what the current theme is about and that their guesses were correct  (D3.4, V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, 
CS2.8). The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
listening  (to)/watching process and students talk about them individually  (SELS1.3) and share them with 
the whole class  (D2.3, SELS.2.1, V4.2).  After the reflection and feedback session, they talk again about the 
components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their ideas  (SELS2.2, V4.2, V10.3). 

===== PDF_PAGE_760 =====
760
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.2.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Students recognise the pronunciation and other phonological 
aspects of target utterances, including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch an extract from the introductory digital story as 
the main context for noticing the target phonological elements  (LS1, LS2, LS4) .  She/He asks them to pay 
attention to the target pronunciation and/or other phonological aspects in the current content. The teacher 
asks them to notice how the target phonological aspects are used in context. Starting with the extract from 
the digital story, students go on with other contextual examples and activities to hear and understand the 
use of target elements in context  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION  (AND OTHER PHONOLOGICAL ASPECTS ): Students 
select and use accurate, natural, and authentic target pronunciation and other phonological aspects of the 
target utterances including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme “classroom 
life and learning” . After recognition activities, students repeat the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme aloud a few times as a whole class with accurate 
and natural pronunciation and other phonological aspects after listening  (to)/watching the recordings that 
the teacher has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes or some other AI-based technologies  
(D3.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2). To help the students pronounce the target utterances including sentences, clauses, 
phrases, words, and sounds accurately, the teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as 
showing the target utterance to the students and they say it or letting them listen to the recording, then 
turning off the recording randomly and students say the utterances they hear from the recording  (D3.2, 
D3.7, D2.3).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one 
out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound exercises by getting help from 
AI technologies  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). Along with the target utterances, the target 
sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are also practised in the same ways. This 
is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) as described in the section1.2.Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum  (D3.2,  D3.6,  D3.7). 
FURTHER PRACTICE OF THE TARGET PRONUNCIATION : Students practise pronunciation with further 
activities for practice, consolidation, feedback and reflection. The teacher could use tape recording and 
feedback techniques. Students read aloud and record a text with the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the  current  theme   provided  by  the  teacher, at home  (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.3, SELS3.1, V4.1,V5.1, LS2, LS5) . They bring their recording (s) to school. First, they listen to the 
correct pronunciation of the text,provided by the teacher, in class. Then they listen to the recordings of 
individual students. During or after listening to the texts recorded by the students at home, the students give 
self-feedback or peer feedback on the pronunciation of the words in the recordings  (D2.4, D3.6, SELS1.3, 
SELS2.2, V4.1, V12.1, V14.1, LS1,LS5) .  If available, a different version of the recording technique could be 
applied in the class. The teacher asks the students to discuss, say/talk about something, which they already 
know, related to the theme. Groups take turns to talk and the rest of the class listens  (D2.3, D2.4, SELS2.2).  
During this session, the teacher records their discussions. After each group’s performance, the class listens 
to the recording for pronunciation and everyone gives feedback on it, including the individual students who 
have spoken during the discussion  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS1). The teacher can get 
help from AI-based technologies for these activities if available. Students’ performances are evaluated as 
explained in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
pronunciation process and students talk about them individually  (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole 
class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS2,CS2.15) .  After the reflection and feedback 
session, they talk again about the components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their 
ideas  (SELS1.2, V3.3, V6.2,V10.3, LS1, LS2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_761 =====
761
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.2.V1
PREPARATION FOR THE WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To scan for finding the main components of 
the theme“classroom life and learning”, the teacher asks the students to listen to and watch the introductory 
digital story to remember the topic of content mentioned in the previous listening/watching sessions. 
The teacher also asks them to check their predictions made in the first listening/watching session at the 
beginning of the lessons on the current theme once more again  (D3.8, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, 
LS7). Then the teacher asks the students to read the relevant parts of the written version of the introductory 
digital story provided by the teacher by scanning  (reading very quickly) to check the main components 
and categories with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations with the 
headings that the teacher has previously written on the smart board/white board/blackboard in relation to 
the main components of the theme  “classroom life and learning”  (D3.7, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.4, CS2.8). Students read the written extract from the story very quickly to check the main components 
corresponding to the headings that the teacher has written on the board and then they tick/circle/underline 
them on the list  (already provided by the teacher) at their seats  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4). The teacher could apply 
different versions of scanning activities such as finding important components, categories, and elements on 
a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever 
she/he likes  (LS1, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.8). In this way, they can understand the story in general better with the 
help of reading this time after the listening/watching sessions held earlier through the main elements and 
components by eliminating the irrelevant ones   (D3.2,D3.6, D3.7, V3.4, LS1, LS2, CS2.16.1). Students share 
with the whole class the components they have found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the 
teacher to them  (D2.3, SELS2.1).  Then they discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class  (D2.4, 
D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, V16.3, LS1, CS2.8). 
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY  (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  To read for the details for finding 
the new target vocabulary the teacher asks the students to read the written version of the introductory 
digital story  (or another written text for working on the target vocabulary) in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity  
(D3.2, SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the story/text and the second peer reads the other half 
silently in a given time  (V3.4, V4.1, V9.2, LS1, CS2.6). The teacher asks them to look out for new words whose 
meanings they do not know during this silent and detailed reading and asks them to look out for new  (target) 
words they have previously noted during the listening/watching sessions  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.6, D3.8, V3.3, V16.1, 
LS7). They are then asked to share these words with their peers without discussing their meanings in the 
text  (D2.4, D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2,V6.2).  The teacher starts working on the new  (target) words here. In this 
way, they have a detailed reading, understand the story better, and find the new  (target) words that they do 
not know to work on.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To separate key  (active) and non-key  (passive) target vocabulary 
in context: To check whether the students know any of the target key vocabulary about the content, the 
teacher asks them to say the new words whose meaning they do not know and which they have noticed 
and noted during their silent jigsaw reading session and the students do that  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, D3.2, D3.8, 
V3.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). When they say the words, the teacher writes them on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard by putting them on two lists. She/He writes the key  (active) target words on one list and the 
non-key  (passive) target words on the other list  (that she/he has already decided on earlier when planning 
the lesson).  She/He quickly covers the non-key words with examples, pictures, question-answers, however, 
spends more time on the key target words as described below  (D3.2, D3.6, V1.2, V3.4, LS2, LS4). 
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY:  To find “part/paragraph context clues” in the parts/paragraphs 
of the story  (context): The teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again, paying 
attention to which part of the story the unknown words that they do not know are in the utterances  (D3.2, 
D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4). He wants to introduce the meanings of the target key  (active) vocabulary 
related to the theme that the students do not know part by part. Then she/he asks them to read the first 

===== PDF_PAGE_762 =====
762
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
part/paragraph in the written version of the story  (or similar text) where the unknown words  (active key 
target vocabulary) appear  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS5, LS7, CS2.8). Then she/he asks them whether they 
understand the meaning of the part/paragraph  (D3.8, SELS3.1).  She/He asks them to discuss the meaning 
of the part/paragraph in pairs in general without knowing the meaning of each new target word and asks 
what helps them understand the meaning of the part/paragraph   (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, LS1, LS7). Students 
discuss the meaning of the part/paragraph in pairs  (D3.10, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.18) and report back to the 
class. The teacher takes notes on the board and writes what the part/paragraph is about in one word/clause/
sentence in the story  (V6.2, LS1, LS5, CS2.16.1). As each part/ paragraph covers a different but related piece 
of the whole topic, they realise that each part/paragraph contains new target words about a specific part of 
the whole theme. This helps them think about what each new target word in each part/paragraph could be 
about  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, CS2.16.1).  These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (5),  (6),  
(7), and  (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To find “sentence clues”/“the indirect context clues” for the target 
key  (active) words in the sentences in context: The teacher helps the students deal with each target key 
word by looking around these words in the sentences for collecting clues which can help them understand 
the meaning of these unknown target words. Starting from the first unknown target  (key) word, students 
are asked to look at the words around the target  (key) words  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.8, D3.9, D3.10, SELS3.1, LS1, 
S2.1,CS2.16.3). These clues could be linking words, adjectives, adverbs, determiners, suffixes, prefixes, time 
expressions that can help them understand the meaning of the unknown target word  (but they do not talk 
about the terminology and parts of speeches, instead they talk about the meanings and functions of these 
supportive surrounding words).  The teacher asks students to work in pairs to go through and list the “indirect 
clues” for each word  (D3.5,D3.7, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, CS2.7, CS2.17). When they finish working in pairs, the 
teacher goes through each word with the whole class and listens to what clues they have found to understand 
the meaning of the unknown target  (key) word in the sentences  (SELS3.1,V4.1, LS7) . This is evaluated as 
described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION AND SELECTION OF TARGET VOCABULARY : To practise with the target words: To practise 
with the target vocabulary that the students work on through “sentence clues/indirect context clues”, the 
teacher checks their understanding again by showing them some realia that she/he has already provided  
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, LS5,CS2.5). The teacher shows them to the students and asks them to think about what 
they are and share them with their peers and then they check the answers with the whole class  (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.19). Then the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again and 
shows the corresponding pictures to the students when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
story, without stopping the video while they are watching the story  (LS2, LS4).  When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the realia/visual elements, etc. about the content and asks in the form of two 
options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that they already know  (D3.6, LS5, CS2.7, CS3.1). 
As they have studied the words through the “part/paragraph and sentences clues” in reading the text earlier, 
the students can choose the correct option when they hear the words for the related theme and they answer 
them after talking about them in pairs  (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, V6.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1). In this way they can 
further practise the meaning of the target words. These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  
(4),  (6),  (7),  (8) and  (9) in the section1.2 Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Further vocabulary practice through dialogical work: The 
teacher shows the story again, and from the beginning, whenever a target vocabulary item is mentioned 
in the story, the teacher stops the video and asks questions  (or lets the students ask and answer each 
other).  In this way, they are engaged in various dialogues and use the target words in these dialogues  (D2.3, 
D3.8, SELS2.1,V4.1, V6.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.8) . So, they revise and practise the meanings of the target  (key) 
vocabulary of the theme “classroom life and learning”. This kind of technique could be applied with different 
and enjoyable activities according to the preference of the teacher. These activities are conducted in the 

===== PDF_PAGE_763 =====
763
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (2) and  (6) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Further activities and games are played at this 
stage to reinforce the meaning of the target words by using several materials including AI-based and web 2.0  
(D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4). They can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a 
problem with technology  (LS4). These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8) and  
(9) in the section in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Consolidation of the target vocabulary: To further practise 
the target vocabulary, the teacher can prepare an activity with images/pictures of target vocabulary using 
the web 2.0 tools. She/He mixes these images/pictures for the target vocabulary items and puts them in 
a raffle programme by using a web 2.0 tools or a real box in the classroom. She/He asks the students to 
take turns to go to the white/black board and to draw a picture related to the target components of the 
current theme  (D2.3, SELS1.2).  Then students say several things about the items in the picture  (D1.5, 
D2.3, V3.4, LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.20). The teacher asks the students in their seats to take notes while the 
student at the white/black board talks about the picture she/he has drawn and to give feedback by raising 
yes/no cards, or correcting if there are mistakes, etc., and also repeat the sentences after him/her  (D3.9, 
D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4, CS3.3). When the student at the white/black board finishes, the teacher asks her/
him to put the picture under the right category that she/he has previously placed on the white/black board 
earlier. In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the concepts of the target  theme will be revised 
and consolidated once again through categorisation  (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5).  The teacher asks the students to 
write a definition or an example sentence in their personal dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their 
dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling and definitions  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, 
V6.2, CS2.20). Students’ learning can be checked and evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8) 
and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. When the vocabulary 
session is over, the teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the 
process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.1, SELS1.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  They also give feedback to each other  
(D2.1, D2.4, V6.1, V9.2, V10.3). 
ENG7.2.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS  (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  Consciousness raising- 
discovery for the use of target language structures in inductive learning process: The teacher writes 
some sentences on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to read the sentences. Then 
she/he asks them to watch the introductory digital story again to draw their attention to the use of target 
grammatical structures of the theme “classroom life and learning”   (D3.2, LS7). The introductory digital story 
is replayed so that the students can notice the use of language with the target grammar structures  (LS2).  
While watching the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the language with the 
target grammatical structures is used. When the students finish watching the introductory digital story 
again, the teacher asks the students to read and examine the example sentences carefully  (D3.2, D3.6, 
LS7, CS2.2, CS2.6, CS3.2). Then she/he asks the students to work in pairs and find similar sentences with 
the target grammar structure (s) in the theme to those written by her/him on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard  (SELS2.2, V 3 .4,  CS2.7).  The students look at the written version of the story and find similar 
sentences to those given by the teacher as examples  (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.7).  The teacher then asks 
the students to discuss and list the common features in these sentences and what kind of things are used 
repeatedly and why they think they are used in that way  (D3.1, D3.6, D3.10, SELS3.1, V3.3, V4.2, CS2.4, 
CS3.3). Students examine the teacher’s example sentences, find the similar sentences in the written version 
of the story and discuss them by making a list of similarities and repeated commonalities  (D3.6, SELS3.2, 
V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.7). The teacher asks the pairs to say what they have found  (D2.3, CS2.10).  
As the pairs say what they have found, the teacher writes them on the board and gives the class time to 
look at them and think about them  (D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.3, CS2.10, CS2.16.1, CS3.3). Then the teacher 

===== PDF_PAGE_764 =====
764
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
hands out a piece of paper and asks the students to make a rule about what they have noticed regarding 
the target structures. Students create a rule about the use of target grammatical structures of the theme 
by working in pairs and they read it to the class and give each other feedback on the rules  (D3.1, SELS2.2, 
SELS3.3, V3.3, LS1, CS2.9, CS2.16.1). The teacher shows a sentence that explains the rule correctly and asks 
the students to check if their rules are correct or the teacher gives a table in which the rule for the language 
with the target grammatical structure is incomplete. She/He asks the students to complete it by working in 
pairs  (D3.1, SELS2.2, V4.2) . Then they check the rule as the whole class and reflect on their experiences 
on how and how much they have learnt  (D2.4, SELS1.1, SELS1.3, V6.1, V10.3, LS1, CS2.15). This process is 
applied again for the other target grammatical structures in the theme if there are any. These activities are 
evaluated as described in items  (5),  (8) and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS IN CONTEXT:  Students practise the use of the 
language including the target grammatical structures: The teacher asks the students to work on grammar 
tasks she/he assigns  (D2.2, D2.3, V3.3, V3.4, CS2.13). These tasks could be the ones that the teacher 
provides. The teacher shows some other contents in the form of a dialogue, a short paragraph, a short story, 
etc. with sentences including the target grammar structures and asks the students to find the sentences 
with the target grammatical structures in them and asks if they understand them easily  (D3.2, D3.7, D3.10, 
CS2.13, CS2.20, CS3.3). She/He facilitates some oral or written activities and exercises for the students to 
further practise the target grammatical structures in context in pairs or groups  (SELS2.2).  She/He also 
facilitates more fun activities and games in which students talk, act out, mime, write, etc. with pen and 
paper, digital, AI-based, etc. materials and contexts so that they can practise and consolidate the target 
grammatical structures by selecting and using them accurately, efficiently, and naturally in context   (D2.5, 
D3.2, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, V4.4, LS2, CS2.13). They engage in several dialogic activities in which they share 
information, ideas and thoughts for communicating with their classmates. They exchange information and 
ideas to others by using target grammatical content  (D3.5, SELS2.2, V3.4) . When the session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the grammar discovery and 
use process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.3, V6.1, LS6,CS2.15). They also give feedback to each other  (D2.1, D2.4, 
V4.2, V10.3, SELS2.2). This is evaluated as described in items  (5),  (8) and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG7.2.R1
PREPARING FOR READING: The teacher facilitates reading activities throughout the  theme  “classroom life 
and learning” from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the theme in various forms 
and amounts as it is explained above  (in the vocabulary section) in terms of how it is taught and when it 
needs to be clarified. Various reading styles such as silent reading, jigsaw reading and speed reading are 
used during the pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases. The ultimate aim of reading practice 
is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend 
and talk about the current content and related issues in a meaningful way  (V3.2, LS1, CS3.3). Students are 
provided a new text (s) to practise their reading skills through the current theme. They look at the surrounding 
visual materials, the title of the text and other supportive elements to guess the topic of the new reading 
content and they make predictions to be checked after reading the text  (D1.1, SELS3.1,V3.3, LS4, CS2.2, 
CS2.11, CS2.16.2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_765 =====
765
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.2.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING:  Students read the new reading text carefully 
to check their predictions made in the preparation session at the beginning of the lesson  (SELS1.2, V3.4, 
LS1, CS2.8).  Then they read the text very quickly  (scanning) to check the main components and categories 
with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations that are provided by the 
teacher  (V3.3,LS4, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.6).  They compare the components they have found in the text with those 
written by the teacher on the smart board/whiteboard related to the sub-themes of “technological tools for 
learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers  (500-1000); ordinal numbers  (50-100)”  (D3.6, 
V3.2, V11.1, V16.1, LS2, LS5, CS2.7). Students read the text very quickly to check that the main components 
correspond to the headings written by the teacher on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on 
the list  (already provided by the teacher) at their desks  (V3.4, LS7, CS2.8). The teacher could use different 
versions of the scanning activities as described in the “listening/watching- comprehension” section above. 
In this way, they can understand the text in general better with the help of scanning  (CS2.16.1).  They share 
the components with the whole class  (SELS2.1) and then they discuss the accuracy of the results as a whole 
class   (D2.3, D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.2, LS1, CS2.8). 
ENG7.2.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  Students read the new text silently in pairs in a jigsaw reading 
activity as they have done in the vocabulary session earlier   (D3.2, SELS2.2,V4.1). During the reading session, 
they look out for new words whose meanings they do not know  (if there are any, other than the target words 
previously covered in the listening/watching-comprehension and vocabulary recognition sessions)  (CS2.6).  
They work on the new words in the same way as in the vocabulary sessions. Then they deal with the semantic 
meaning conveyed in the text through display questions, then semi-closed activities and then open-ended 
activities   (V3.3, V6.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.6). They deal with the meaning by using strategies from the closed to 
the open-ended range to understand the theme “classroom life and learning” in terms of the sub-themes of 
“technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers  (500-1000); ordinal 
numbers  (50-100)”mean from different perspectives to build their own understandings  (D3.6, D3.8, SELS3.1, 
CS2.13).  The teacher facilitates a number of activities to help the students improve their comprehension, 
synthesis and evaluation skills after applying the knowledge they have gained from the reading process  
(SELS3.2, SELS3.3, CS2.3, CS2.17, CS2.20).  After this stage, they work on activities to connect their 
knowledge and skills they have acquired about the current content with CLIL  (history, maths, science, 
etc.) and cultural issues to be able to enrich their perspectives on the current theme  (D3.5, SELS3.2, V3.2, 
V3.4, V11.1, V16.1, LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.13, CS2.14).  In this way, they will have the opportunity to develop their 
knowledge and language competence through reading. They can have the opportunity to develop their 
cognitive, emotional, cultural, social, and creative skills through the process of reading  (SELS3.3, V7.2, 
CS2.20). 
ENG7.2.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING PROCESS: Students reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation 
to the whole reading-comprehension process  (SELS1.3).  They talk about them individually and then share 
them with the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1,V4.2, CS2.15). After the reflection and feedback 
session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas  (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, 
V4.3, V12.1, LS1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_766 =====
766
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.2.W1.
PREPARATION FOR WRITING-EXPRESSION:  Students are facilitated throughout the theme with writing 
activities, from the first lesson to the last when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount of writing. At the beginning of the writing process, students recall their pre-existing 
knowledge about the current content to make a link between what they know and what they are going to 
write about  (D3.2, SELS1.1, CS2.12).  This includes examining all the audio/visual sources and elements 
provided for understanding the writing task  (V3.2,LS1, CS2.2). 
ENG7.2.W2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL : Students listen  (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the writing task they have been given  (CS2.2).  These are limited and short pieces of writing to see how the 
language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the written language, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the  theme “classroom life and learning”. 
Initially, they practise the language in a more controlled way, writing to repeat or simply explain what they 
have heard and seen and/ or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they 
try to understand how the language is used in the target content by examining the model/example writing 
carefully  (V3.4, LS2, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the 
knowledge they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in 
relation to current content in their later free writing tasks  (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, LS1). 
ENG7.2.W3.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WRITTEN CONTENT : After working on a sample/model writing task, students 
begin to produce/construct similar tasks of their own  (V16.1).  They participate in several writing activities 
individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class  (D2.3, SELS2.2,V4.1).  Their products could range from 
writing a word to a phrase, a clause to a full sentence, a group of sentences to a short paragraph, an essay to 
a short story. These writing activities will help students to produce and display meaningful written language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme as in others  (SELS2.1, LS1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.2.W4.
PRACTISING BY PRODUCING WRITTEN CONTENT: Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
essays, diaries/journals, blogs, scripts for plays, documentaries, films, etc. to express their ideas, thoughts, 
and feelings in relation to the current topic  (D1.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.20).  They take part in 
individual or collaborative projects to improve their writing skills together with social, cultural, cognitive, and 
affective aspects  (D1.4, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2). Within this variety, they can find the opportunities to 
show how they can use the language that they have learnt to describe and comment on the current content 
for developing new ideas about them in different genres of writing, according to their potential needs for 
expressing themselves and communication with others  (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V3.2,
V11.1, V16.1, LS5, CS2.14, CS3.3).  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used 
for further writing practice  (D2.5,LS9). 
ENG7.2.W5.
PROCESS WRITING: Controlled writing of words, sentences and paragraphs turns to process writing with 
the support of the teacher’s and also peers’ feedback in the theme. This process is expanded and supported 
with additional activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 

===== PDF_PAGE_767 =====
767
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, etc. to practise further by 
writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, 
enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9,
CS2.13, CS2.14).  A. All the content is formed as contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the 
students’ interests, and language level. Students improve their writing after reviewing the feedback they 
receive and this spiral, cyclical, and ongoing work becomes a progressive path for students  (D3.1, SELS1.2, 
V12.3, LS1, CS3.1). 
ENG7.2.W6.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students communicate their ideas, thoughts 
and feelings about the sub-themes of “technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; 
cardinal numbers  (500-1000); ordinal numbers  (50-100)” through their writing tasks  ( V3.2, V11.1, V16.1, 
CS3.3). They can use AI-based technologies for various activities, by having access to authentic materials. 
They can also produce digital written materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways to 
interact and communicate with peers and/or other people inside and outside school by using the language 
including target words, language chunks, and the social language expressions for the relevant theme in their 
writing  (D3.3, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V11.1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). All writing activities can be evaluated as 
described in items  (3),  (4),  (5),  (9),  (10),  (11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of 
the English Curriculum.
ENG7.2.W7.
REFLECTING THROUGH WRITING:  The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and 
feelings in relation to the whole writing-expression process  (SELS1.3)  and students talk about them 
individually and share them with the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3,SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15).  After the reflection 
and feedback session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas  (SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1,LS1). 
SPEAKING-EXPRESSION
Practising through speaking from controlled to communicative stages: The teacher facilitates speaking 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the last. Speaking activities support students’ 
learning and help them to produce meaningful language for personal expression and communication with 
others, by using the language including the target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions of the theme.  (V3.4, V4.5, LS1, LS5). 
ENG7.2.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING : In the beginning, students recall their background knowledge about the 
theme through listening/watching and/or reading and then they talk about it  (SELS1.1, CS2.12).  Students 
practise the target language items in a controlled way, by saying, repeating, explaining what they hear and 
see in the context, for instance, in the introductory digital story and the listening and reading sections in 
different contexts  ( SELS3.2).  Then they can expand their language use and practice in each section by 
increasing the amount of speaking they do  (D1.3, V3.4, LS1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.2.S2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL:  Students listen  (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the speaking task they have been given  (CS2.2).  These are limited and short pieces of speaking to see 
how the language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the spoken 

===== PDF_PAGE_768 =====
768
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
language, after hearing them through listening activities in the theme. Initially, they practise the language in 
a more controlled way, repeating some utterances, simply explaining what they have heard and seen, and/
or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to understand how the 
language is used in the target content by examining the speaking model/example carefully  (V3.2, V3.3, V11.1, 
V16.1, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge they 
have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to the 
current theme in their later free speaking tasks  (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, V3.4, LS5). 
ENG7.2.S3.
PRODUCTION OF MEANINGFUL AND ACCURATE CONTENT:  In the later stages of the lessons, the teacher 
prepares new contexts for the students in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading the language 
including the target words and grammatical structures related to the  theme “classroom life and learning” 
in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS3.2, V7.2, LS9) . These newly created contents are 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. 
They participate in such speaking activities individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class  (D3.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.20). 
ENG7.2.S4.
CONSTRUCTING MEANINGFUL SPOKEN CONTENT:  Students produce various spoken content and their 
products could range from producing a simple utterance including a word to a phrase, a clause to a full 
sentence, a group of sentences to a short speech, a dialogue to a spoken presentation  (SELS3.3, V3.4, 
CS2.20). These speaking activities will help students to produce accurate and meaningful spoken language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme “classroom life and learning” as in others  (D3.6, SELS2.1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.2.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Collaborative and communicative activities 
are designed and used to revise and consolidate the whole  theme “classroom life and learning” on the sub-
themes of “technological tools for learning; learning activities in the classroom; cardinal numbers  (500-1000); 
ordinal numbers  (50-100)”   (V4.5, LS5, CS2.13, CS2.14) . Storification, drama, and gamification techniques 
are actively and extensively used for further speaking practice throughout the theme  (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, 
V4.1, V4.2, LS4, LS9). Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended 
contexts such as dialogues, speeches, short texts, presentations, etc. to interact and to communicate 
with peers and/or other people inside and/or outside the school by using the language including the target 
words, language chunks, and social language expressions for the current theme  (SELS2.3, V3.4, V7.1, V7.2, 
LS1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic 
materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects for speaking at school and at home through 
recordings  (D3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V7.3, V11.1, LS2).  All these speaking activities can be evaluated 
as described in items  (1),  (2),  (3),  (4),  (5),  (7),  (8),  (9),  (10), and  (11) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG7.2.S6.
REFLECTING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students are encouraged to reflect individually or collaboratively in 
groups on their own individual learning  (SELS1.3) or on their collaborative learning in pairs, groups or as a 
whole class collaboratively  (D2.3, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  The activities will help and support students in these 
feedback and reflection sessions. Their feedback is shared with peers and the teacher and takes the form 

===== PDF_PAGE_769 =====
769
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
of interactive and ongoing feedback that can help their own improvement  (SELS1.2, SELS2.1) and also they 
contribute to the improvement of their peers in their learning processes  (V4.1, V4.3,V12.1, V12.3, LS1). 
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To offer help about technological tools in English and to improve writing and speaking skills by 
using the target vocabulary and the target grammatical structures (Will for help)
Activity 1: I am in trouble!
The teacher writes some scenarios about technological problems (e.g., 1-There is a virus on my computer., 
2-The printer is not working., 3-I must connect to Wi-Fi.) on slips of paper. She/He divides the class into 
pairs and hands out the slips to the pairs. Then she/he asks the students to read the problems and offer 
help for those. When the students complete the task, they are ready to act it out. The pairs are invited to 
the board in turns and asked to be careful with body language and intonation while acting out. Each pair 
presents scenarios respectively. After the role-plays, each pair shares the most creative scenarios with 
the class. The teacher praises the students for their creativity, and presentation skills. Students reflect on 
their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To offer help about technological tools in English and to improve writing and speaking skills by 
using the target vocabulary and the target grammatical structures (Will for help)
Activity: I am in trouble!
Instruction:
The teacher writes some scenarios about technological problems (e.g., 1-There is a virus on my computer., 
2-The printer is not working., 3-I must connect to Wi-Fi.) and some phrases for offers (fix the virus problem, 
check the printer, ask for the password) on slips of paper. She/He divides the class into pairs and hands out 
the slips to the pairs. Then she/he asks the students to read the problems and offer help for those. When 
the students complete the task, they are ready to act it out. The pairs are invited to the board in turns 
and asked to be careful with body language and intonation while acting out. Each pair presents scenarios 
respectively. After the role-plays, each pair shares the most creative scenarios with the class. The teacher 
praises the students for their creativity, and presentation skills. Students reflect on their thoughts and 
feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_770 =====
770
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 3: PERSONAL LIFE & WELL-BEING
Sub-themes: Body parts, illnesses, and keeping good 
health; the place of technology in people’s lives
This theme is centred on the concept of “personal life and well-being” and 
covers the sub-themes of “body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; 
the place of technology in people’s lives”. These components (sub-themes) 
are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised use of 
target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and social 
language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed to 
be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within 
and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 14 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.4. Self-Efficacy, D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.1. Empathy, 
D2.2. Responsibility, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, D2.5. Playfulness,  D3.1. 
Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.4. Seeking the Truth, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning, 
D3.9. Doubting, D3.10. Critical Perspective
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1 Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2 Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_771 =====
771
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Visual Arts, Music, Physical Education and 
Sports, Technology and Design
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering 
Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, 
CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. 
Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation 
Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.18. Argumentation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing 
Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.2. Problem 
Solving Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_772 =====
772
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 7 is structured based on inductive approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.7.3.L1.  Students can prepare and get ready for listening (to)/watching about the current content on 
“personal life and well-being with body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of 
technology in people’s lives”.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience about the current theme and 
content to recall their background knowledge by investigating it carefully.
b) Students identify significant and necessary relationships and connections between their pre-
existing knowledge, their past experience and the clues to the current content by responding 
to meaningful questions about it (without speaking Turkish or using a translation).
c) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by using their pre-existing 
knowledge and past experience of the content.
d) Students make rational predictions about the current content by looking at the supplementary 
visual elements provided. 
ENG.7.3.L2.  Students can bring together the information in the current content on “personal life and well-
being with body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s 
lives”.
a) Students identify the main topic of the current content in general by listening (to)/watching it 
as a whole in its context. 
b) Students recognise the significant details and basic components of the current content within 
the whole by listening (to) and watching the whole content carefully to notice them.
ENG.7.3.L3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “personal life 
and well-being with body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in 
people’s lives”.
a) Students check their initial predictions about the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between their self-predictions and the clues provided as visuals surrounding 
the content.
b) Students make significant and necessary classifications in the current content that affect the 
meaning of the generally perceived content.
c) Students make significant and necessary comparisons in the generally perceived current 
content to highlight differences between two or more different things by using visuals, ensuring 
clarity and meaning.
d) Students recognise significant branching, linear or spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content.
e) Students make essential inferences and deductions to understand the meaning of the 
generally perceived current content better.
f) Students strongly recognise the holistic meaning formed by the components, comparisons, 
classifications, and details related to the current content.
g) Students construct a detailed understanding of the meaning of the current content through 
prior classifications, comparisons, and inferences/deductions.
h) Students position, internalise, and personalise current content in an individualised, age-
appropriate, and level-appropriate way.
ENG.7.3.L4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to 
the listening (to)/watching process about the current content on “personal life and well-being 
with body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives” 
in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_773 =====
773
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students individually convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings 
that are critically reviewed in relation to the current listening (to)/watching contents and the 
process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current listening (to)/watching content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce new audio/visual products individually by revising their personal work after 
participating in reflective activities related to the listening (to)/watching process of the current 
content.
ENG.7.3.P1.  Students can select and use target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases, clauses, and sentences in utterances authentically, 
naturally, and accurately in the current content about “personal life and well-being with body 
parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives” to develop 
holistic and conscious pronunciation skills after recognising them in context. 
a) Students recognise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases and sentences in utterances within the current content by 
listening (to)/ watching it, first as a whole and then with pauses.
b) Students repeat utterances, including target sentences, clauses, phrases, and words with 
target theme-specific sounds by considering phonological aspects such as pronunciation and 
intonation accurately and naturally in the content several times as a whole class and then in 
groups and individually.
c) Students talk about the current content by taking part in small group conversations by paying 
attention to select and use accurate phonological aspects such as pronunciation, intonation, 
stress, and other features as they are understood.
d) Students reflect personally on their pronunciation and other target phonological aspects such 
as intonation after recording and listening to group conversations about the target content.
e) Students evaluate feedback from others and their personal feedback and reflection by 
listening to or watching the audio/visual content again to check for accuracy.
f) Students utilise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of utterances including target sounds of the current content, appropriately, effectively, 
accurately, naturally, automatically, and consciously when communicating with others in 
different contexts.
ENG.7.3.R1.  Students can prepare for reading the content on “personal life and well-being with body parts, 
illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives” efficiently and 
effectively.
a) Students recall and activate significant pre-existing knowledge and past experiences that can 
be related to the current theme and content through careful exploration. 
b) Students recognise significant relationships between pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences, and clues to current content.
c) Students make strong preliminary predictions about the current content based on explored 
and recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring and examining the 
audio-visual clues in relation to it.
ENG.7.3.R2.  Students can bring information together about the current content on “personal life and well-
being with body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s 
lives” through skimming, scanning and detailed reading.
a) Students skim the current content by looking very quickly and carefully at the surrounding 
visual materials to identify its general focus.

===== PDF_PAGE_774 =====
774
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students scan the current content by reading it silently and quickly to find key and major 
components.
c) Students read the current content again silently and carefully to examine any significant 
semantic and structural details.
d) Students examine the semantic details in the content carefully to check the accuracy of their 
initial predictions.
ENG.7.3.R3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “personal life 
and well-being with body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in 
people’s lives”.
a) Students classify significant and necessary elements of the current content in a meaningful 
way.
b) Students compare significant and key elements of the current content with each other or with 
similar ones in a meaningful way.
c) Students recognise significant and basic spiral, causal, and logical relationships in the current 
content through careful examination and analysis.
d) Students make meaningful inferences from information in the current content by examining it 
critically.
e) Students internalise their meaningful inferences from information in the current content in an 
individualised way appropriate to their age and language level.
ENG.7.3.R4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related 
to the reading process about the current content on “personal life and well-being with body 
parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives” in relation 
to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content 
and process with others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities related 
to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
ENG.7.3.V1.  Students can select and use target vocabulary efficiently, effectively, and accurately, based on 
the current content about “personal life and well-being with body parts, illnesses, and keeping 
good health; the place of technology in people’s lives” after recognising them in context and 
developing their conscious and inductive vocabulary learning skills.
a) Students make predictions about the main topic of the current content by identifying “general 
contextual clues” from the visual, audio, and written preparation materials provided during the 
“listening/watching for gist” and/or reading for “skimming” sessions.
b) Students check the accuracy of the predictions related to the “general contextual clue” by 
listening to, watching, and/or reading the audio, visual, and/or written content in context.
c) Students search the target audio/visual, and/or written content by scanning to find key 
components of the theme.
d) Students listen/watch the content carefully and/or read it silently to identify and underline/
circle target unknown words.
e) Students separate target (key-active) words from the other (non-key-passive) words in the 
target content.
f) Students examine relevant target words, phrases, and expressions in the current content to 
understand how and where they are used.

===== PDF_PAGE_775 =====
775
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
g)  Students determine paragraph context clues to identify the topics of the parts/paragraphs 
containing unknown target words.
h)  Students discuss the meaning of the target words by finding indirect sentence context clues 
in the assigned sentences of the parts/paragraphs of the content.
i)  Students determine the correct meanings of the target words in the current content in pairs 
or groups by comparing the meanings/definitions proposed.
j) Students confirm the accuracy of the meanings/definitions of the target words in the current 
content by consulting with the teacher, the class and/or by using printed or digital dictionaries.
k) Students make use of the target words of the current theme in a range of semantically 
associated contextual activities and tasks accurately, naturally, authentically, and 
appropriately.
l) Students make use of the target words of the current theme accurately, naturally, appropriately 
and effectively through careful selection when communicating with others.
ENG.7.3.G1.  Students can select and use target grammatical language items efficiently, effectively, and 
accurately, based on the current content about “personal life and well-being with body parts, 
illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives”, after recognising 
them in context and developing their conscious and inductive grammaring skills through 
consciousness-raising and discovery.
a)  Students listen to, watch, and/or read the audio, visual, and written current content presented 
in context that introduces the general use of the target language structures in the current 
theme.
b) Students examine example sentences provided by the teacher or instructional materials 
including target grammatical items to see how the target grammatical structure(s) of the 
target theme is/are used to construct a meaning or contribute to meaning.
c) Students analyse current audio, visual, and/or written content presented in context to identify 
sentences similar to those provided as examples.
d) Students find the commonalities between the sentences identified and those exemplified by 
the teacher or materials through careful comparison in pairs and/or groups.
e) Students discover the characteristics of the commonalities in the sentences in the current 
content by discussing them in pairs or groups as an awareness/consciousness-raising activity.
f) Students formulate rule(s) about the same/target grammar structure(s) of the current theme 
based on their observations and discussions in pairs or groups.
g) Students engage in contextual activities on the use of target grammatical structures 
(grammaring) of the current theme to explain and justify the grammar rule(s) they have 
discovered.
h) Students practise to consolidate their understanding of the target grammar that they 
discovered by selecting accurate and meaningful items in meaningful and contextualised 
activities.
i) Students produce accurate and unique verbal or written content by using target grammar 
consciously and in a natural way, without thinking about the rules.
j) Students produce new spoken/written content by using the target grammatical structures 
efficiently, authentically, automatically, and naturally in context when communicating with 
others without thinking about rules.
ENG.7.3.W1.  Students can prepare for writing efficiently and accurately based on the current content 
about “personal life and well-being with body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the 
place of technology in people’s lives”.

===== PDF_PAGE_776 =====
776
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students relate pre-existing knowledge and experiences from initial listening, watching, and 
reading processes to current content by examining and activating them.
b) Students understand what the current writing task requires in terms of content and purpose in 
relation to the current content accurately by applying pre-existing knowledge and experiences, 
following guided instructions.
ENG.7.3.W2.  Students can analyse and understand a provided model to guide them in producing similar 
writing tasks related to the content on “personal life and well-being with body parts, illnesses, 
and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives”.
a) Students grasp the significant and basic components of the content in the model/sample 
provided for the assigned writing task, including word selection and use, grammar selection 
and use, and other details such as type, style, and meaning as required.
ENG.7.3.W3.  Students can construct new written content on “personal life and well-being with body parts, 
illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives” based on their 
understanding of the model(s) provided.
a) Students share their ideas and thoughts by brainstorming through collaborative discussion to 
generate ideas for the new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current 
theme.
b) Students plan how the knowledge and ideas generated during the brainstorming session can 
be applied to their new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current theme.
c) Students conduct preliminary research relevant to the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) 
writing task on the current content, considering the type of writing, age appropriateness, and 
language level.
d) Students produce a well-organised and detailed draft relevant to the (prepared and/or 
unprepared) type of writing and appropriate for the age and language level.
e) Students organise and develop contextual materials relevant to the type of the assigned task 
(prepared and/or unprepared) and appropriate to age and language level.
f) Students modify the content they produce for the assigned writing task in a coherent and 
meaningful way, consistent with the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) type of writing, 
and appropriate to the age and language level.
ENG.7.3.W4.  Students can practise producing written content based on the current theme “personal life 
and well-being with body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology 
in people’s lives”.
a) Students present relevant supportive materials appropriate to the assigned (prepared and/
or unprepared) writing task, considering the type of writing and appropriate to the age and 
language level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and strategies for the assigned (prepared 
and/or unprepared) writing task, considering its writing type and appropriate to their age and 
language level.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language structures accurately and appropriately 
in their writing tasks, by selecting necessary and appropriate ones in line with the assigned 
type of writing and appropriate to the age and language level.
d) Students express their messages about the current content clearly to the reader in the 
assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task.
ENG.7.3.W5.  Students can engage in the process of writing related to the content on “personal life and 
well-being with body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in 
people’s lives”.

===== PDF_PAGE_777 =====
777
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students review the feedback from the teacher and/or peers critically on their prepared and/
or unprepared writing task(s).
b) Students revise to reorganise the written content of their prepared and/or unprepared task 
based on the feedback received from the teacher and/or peers.
c) Students refine and develop their written content produced for their prepared/unprepared 
writing task through the iterative feedback process.
ENG.7.3.W6.  Students can reconstruct their writing about the current theme on “personal life and well-
being with body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s 
lives” to communicate effectively about it.
a) Students adapt and use individually internalised information in current or similar content by 
selecting and reorganising it meaningfully in written form as necessary when communicating 
with other people in different contexts.
b) Students exchange information and ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge and content with others.
ENG.7.3.W7.  Students can be able convey (reflect on) their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings 
related to the writing process about the current content on “personal life and well-being with 
body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives” in 
relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings they review 
critically in relation to their current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current writing-expression content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce their new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current writing-expression content and process.
ENG.7.3.S1.  Students can prepare themselves to speak meaningfully, fluently, and efficiently about the 
current content on “personal life and well-being with body parts, illnesses, and keeping good 
health; the place of technology in people’s lives”.
a) Students relate current content by analysing pre-existing knowledge and experiences from 
earlier listening, watching, and reading sessions to associate them with the current content.
ENG.7.3.S2.  Students can analyse and understand the model content related to “personal life and well-
being with body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s 
lives” to support the production of spoken language.
a) Students grasp what the provided model/example is about with the help of audio, visual, and/
or written elements after listening, watching, and/or reading the current content.
ENG.7.3.S3.  Students can produce meaningful and accurate spoken content related to the current theme 
on “personal life and well-being with body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place 
of technology in people’s lives”.
a) Students recognise which form and type of spoken content is expected and assigned based on 
the model/example about the current theme for both prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations through careful examination.
b) Students conduct preliminary research on the expected and assigned content to be produced 
for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students develop a draft outline in accordance with the assigned prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations as presented in the model/example, appropriate to the age and language 
level based on the current theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_778 =====
778
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students organise supplementary audio-visual materials in accordance with the assigned 
task as presented in the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations 
and appropriate to their age and language level. 
e) Students organise information related to the current content to be presented, appropriate to 
the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
f) Students critically review their prepared presentation content for accuracy, coherence, and 
appropriateness to audience and context in prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.7.3.S4.  Students can construct meaningful spoken content about “personal life and well-being with 
body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives” 
through efficient and meaningful practice.
a) Students make spoken content clear and understandable to listeners by selecting and using 
style and form appropriate to age and language level in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
b) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using materials appropriate to the 
context, age, language level, style, and type of discourse, similar to those presented in the 
model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using target vocabulary and language 
structures similar and/or appropriate to those presented in the model/example considering 
their age, language level, context, style, and type of discourse for prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations.
d) Students convey relevant explicit, implicit, and/or complex messages related to the current 
content clearly in context to the listeners by using appropriate material and body language in 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
e) Students convey their messages about the current content clearly to the listeners by 
incorporating all the necessary semantic elements in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
ENG.7.3.S5.  Students can reconstruct the information about “personal life and well-being with body 
parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives” when 
communicating with others.
a) Students use the same or similar information presented in the current content in verbal or 
written forms in different contexts by reorganising it meaningfully, accurately, effectively, 
efficiently, functionally, and individually as required.
b) Students engage in verbal and/or written communication by sharing the reconstructed 
meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.7.3.S6.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the speaking 
process about the current content on “personal life and well-being with body parts, illnesses, 
and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives” in relation to themselves or 
others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students reveal their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they review critically 
in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
critically review in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process with 
others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_779 =====
779
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
PERSONAL LIFE & WELL BEING
Sub-themes: body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health:
Nouns: An appearance, blood, a bone, a brain, a disease, flu, a headache, a toothache, a stomachache, an 
illness, a condition, a drug, a sleep, an ambulance, an appointment, an ambulance, an accident, a chemist, a 
cold, a danger, an exercise, a medicine, a virus, a rest, health, a treatment.
Verbs: To break, to check, to cut, to fall.
Adjectives: Medical, ill, dangerous, sick, addictive.
Adverbs: Badly, completely.
Vocabulary for the place of technology in people’s lives:
Nouns: An alternative, a benefit, a web, knowledge, smart devices, screen time, data.
Verbs: To reach, to set a limit.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Simple Past Tense (was/were): (I was sick last week).
-The Simple Past Tense (Regular verbs): (I visited the chemist yesterday).
-The question tags for “to be- was-were” and the Simple Past Tense: (You were at the hospital yesterday, 
weren’t you? They visited the doctor last month, didn’t they?)
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of the Simple Past Tense (was/were): Describing past states of being or situations. 
-Use of the Simple Past Tense (Regular verbs): Describing completed actions or events that occurred in the 
past with regular verbs.
-Use of the question tags for “to be- was-were” and the Simple Past Tense: Confirming a past action or a past 
state of being.
Target Social Language in Use:
Staying active is key to feeling great!
Scroll less, live more!
Unplug and unwind!
Prepare a pack of healthy food and make sure you get your five-a-day!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
Intonation of questions and question tags

===== PDF_PAGE_780 =====
780
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “personal life and well-being” and its components such as “body parts, 
illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives” is present in almost all languages. 
People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to 
their new language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what “personal life 
and well-being” and its components such as “body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of 
technology in people’s lives” means but will not know how to say them in a foreign language if this has not yet 
been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help 
them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more easily in a foreign language, in this case, 
English.
Key Concepts:
body parts, illnesses, good health, keeping good health, technology, the place of technology in people’s lives.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will make scrapbooks about a healthy life. In it, they will create 
pages about staying healthy and using technology wisely. One page can show body parts, healthy habits, and 
ways to avoid illness, like eating well and exercising. Another page can show how they use technology for 
school, games, and fun, but also how they spend time without screens, like playing sports or reading a book. 
They will use drawings, photos, and short captions to share their ideas. They can use Web 2.0 tools. The 
assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “personal life and well-being” and its components such 
as “body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives”. As they are 
lower secondary school students in year 7 (seven), they can know what “personal life and well-being” and its 
components such as “body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s 
lives” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people who start to learn a new language bring 
their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and transfer it to their new language learning 
context. However, they may not know how to say these things in a foreign language if this has not yet been 
covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own language can help 
them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a foreign language, in this case English.
As they are students in year 7 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about 
“personal life and well-being” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/
or years. These grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning 
of the year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the 
current theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “personal life and well-being” and its components such as “body parts, illnesses, 
and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives”. Recalling and practising with relevant 
vocabulary and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful 
as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “personal life and well-
being”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary and grammatical items from the 
previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, 
their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to 
understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the current 
theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to 

===== PDF_PAGE_781 =====
781
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by 
rubrics throughout these practices).
Establishing Links
Students are asked to recall the concept of “personal life and well-being” by remembering their pre-existing 
background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with 
the current activities in the theme in English without saying anything in Turkish and without translating 
anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English. To remind them 
of their pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, many materials 
such as “a scene from a short film, a passage from a book, a part from a personal diary (journal),  a part of a 
story, a collection of pictures, a part of an animation, a poster, an excerpt from a video etc.” related to this 
content can be shared with the class before the main teaching/learning flow begins. The materials about 
the current concept would give a general idea of the theme. Students are work on the material according to 
the instructions and try to grasp it. The teacher tries to check if they have an idea about the topic of the new 
theme with several activities. When they have finished working on them, the teacher asks them in English 
if they have understood what has been in the material. She/He asks them to write a related words that they 
already know (learnt in previous years) in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/ box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways for checking their comprehension could be tried by the teacher.
They wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the theme, the digital 
introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme“personal life and well-being”  in the classroom, to prepare the students 
emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as 
an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their 
well-being  (D1.5, V12.1, V13.4). This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/
singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote, 
a very short story, watching a pantomime/online story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current 
theme and does not require any knowledge of the current theme in English  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.4, V7.2, 
V13.2, LS4). That is only for relaxation and preparation for the lesson.
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills are used in an integrated way around a central  personal life and well-being”  and the 
sub-themes of “body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives” , 
allowing students to build background knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive 
tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to 
support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive 
in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity 
builds on the previous one to promote language development and to increase communicative competence. 
The theme “personal life and well-being” is characterised by a balanced integration of all the skills, where 
students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) and respond 
through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their grammar, vocabulary 
and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG7.3.L1.
PREPARATION FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students prepare to access the introduction to the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to remember what they have done during the “establishing links” 
session for recalling background knowledge about the concept of “personal life and well-being”, where they 
watched a short film scene prepared for that section  (which is not a part of the introductory digital story of 

===== PDF_PAGE_782 =====
782
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
the theme)  (D3.2, V3.4,LS1, LS2, LS4).  They remember what they already know about “personal life and 
wellbeing” to prepare themselves to work on guessing the topic of the current theme “personal life and 
well-being with  (extended) body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in 
people’s lives”  (V10.1, V13.3, V13.4, LS1, LS5). They prepare to access the main materials of the theme for 
having connections by making predictions based on the short film in the “establishing links” session  (D3.8, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4). 
ENG7.3. L2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER BY LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students collect “general context clues” to 
understand the whole content by looking at visual clues before listening  (to)/watching. The teacher asks the 
students to look at any visual material such as pictures, posters, and realia related to the current content 
on “personal life and well-being with  (extended) body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of
technology in people’s lives”  to identify the topic of the content and to answer the question “What is the 
whole content about?”  (D3.6, V10.1, V13.3, V13.4, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.2). They can realise that there might be 
different elements related to this concept  (D2.1, V4.5). The teacher asks them to look at the visuals quickly 
to make predictions about the topic of the whole theme by using the “listening  (to)/watching for gist” strategy 
before listening/watching the main visual material of the theme, which is the introductory digital story  (D3.8, 
V4.5, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.11). The teacher asks the students to read the title of the theme and asks them to 
brainstorm by thinking about which words they already know and whichwords come to mind in connection 
with the title  (D3.4, LS2, CS2.12, CS2.16.2). She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new/target 
words they do not know at this stage of the lesson. She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity 
to guess the general topic/theme of the context by using the words they already know and that there will be 
time to work on the new words of the current content later  (D1.4, V12.2). At this stage, some guessing games 
can be played to guess the main topic of the current content/theme by using the clues from the additional 
visuals such as pictures, posters, etc. related to the content, prepared and produced by the teacher, by 
using web 2.0 tools  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS2, LS4, CS2.12). 
ENG7.3.L3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  Students identify and recognise the topic of the 
current theme by listening  (to)/watching the introductory digital story that provides a context for the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the introductory digital story to recognise the 
topic of the theme in general  (This is a kind of preparation to work on the target key vocabulary in the later 
stages of the lesson (s)  (D3.2, V3.4). The teacher asks the students to recall the work done with visuals  (the 
scene from a short film) in the “establishing links” session about the current context shown earlier during the 
listening  (to)/ watching session  (D3.2, LS2). Students watch the digital introductory story and consolidate 
the identification of the target theme as a whole  (CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that 
the students can hear/ see the context as a whole and understand the theme holistically.  (D3.1, V10.1, V13.3, 
V13.4, LS2, LS4, LS5). 
MAKING MEANING THROUGH THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE THEME BY LISTENING/W ATCHINfG:  
Students find and identify the main components of the current content by listening  (to)/watching the context 
quickly through scanning. The teacher organises a scanning activity to find out the components as the basic 
and most important details of the current content through the introductory digital story to help students 
learn and know more about the current theme. She/He asks the students to listen and watch the story again 
without stopping, by scanning/looking for any relevant words or concepts that are heard in the story  (D3.6, 
V3.4, LS2, LS4, LS7). The teacher hands out a sheet to the students on which there is a list of words/phrases, 
etc. to tick, circle or underline. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard through watching the 
story very quickly without stopping. The teacher could apply different versions of scanning activities such 
as finding important elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not 

===== PDF_PAGE_783 =====
783
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, LS1, CS2.4 ).  In this way, they will be 
able to understand the story in general through the main elements and components by eliminating the 
irrelevant ones. Students share with the whole class the words and components they have found and ticked/
circled/underlined on the list given by the teacher to them  (D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.4) . Then they discuss the 
accuracy of the findings as a whole class   (SELS2.2, CS2.8).  This is evaluated as described in items  (1) 
and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After having watched 
the introductory digital story, the teacher places five headings on the smart board/whiteboard/blackboard 
which are on the target vocabulary list of the related theme as clues to the components of the current 
theme  (D3.7, V10.1, V13.3, V13.4, LS5). She/He places a corresponding picture next to each component and 
writes the name of each heading. She/He guides students to understand the heading of each category with 
the help of pictures. The teacher asks the students to work with the words they already know during this 
phase of the lesson  (SELS1.2).  Students work on these categories with the help of the scenes from the 
introductory digital story  (D3.6, LS2, LS4). The teacher reads the headings aloud a few times by pointing to 
the corresponding pictures on the board and the students repeat them. Then the students say the headings 
all together. For working on the sub-themes of “body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of 
technology in people’s lives”further, the teacher asks volunteers to go to the board and choose the picture  
(already provided by the teacher) to stick/pin/ drag it on the white/black board or the smart board  (if the 
teacher asks)  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.2,V3.4, V20.4, LS2, LS4).  Then, they say the headings  (components) 
together as a whole class. In this way, the main components of the theme“personal life and well-being”  are 
introduced to the students in English  (LS5).  At this stage, the meanings of the target words are not studied, 
but the categorisation of the basic components contributes to their recognition of the concept in general. 
The teacher could ask the students to decide which words in the introductory digital story they do not know 
and to note them while reading the text later in the reading session  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.8, SELS1.1, V3.4). This 
could be evaluated as described in items  (1),  (2),  (3),  (6)  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum. All this work helps them understand the main categories through 
classifications and also the inferences they make while listening to and watching the introductory digital 
story and/or examining the picture related to the content. In this way, they recognise and comprehend the 
main concept as a whole through categorisation, comparison, and inference  (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5, V3.3, LS2, 
LS4, LS7). 
ENG7.3.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS : Students check the accuracy of their prior 
guesses, reflect on their ideas and feelings about the listening/watching session, and give feedback to each 
other. After the students listen  (to)/watch the introductory digital story to find the main components of 
the theme, the teacher asks them whether their guesses they made during the “establishing links” session, 
looking at visuals session, and their first listening  (to)/watching session have been correct  (D3.8,V4.2, V4.3, 
LS2, LS4).  As they have already seen a scene from a short film created about the concept of the current 
theme, during the “establishing links” session earlier, and looked at some supplementary visuals  (pictures, 
the title of the theme) and also they saw the picture related to the introductory digital story they can easily 
answer what the current theme is about and that their guesses were correct  (D3.4, V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, 
CS2.8). The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
listening  (to)/watching process and students talk about them individually  (SELS1.3) and share them with 
the whole class  (D2.3, SELS.2.1, V4.2).  After the reflection and feedback session, they talk again about the 
components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their ideas  (SELS2.2, V4.2, V10.3). 
ENG7.3.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Students recognise the pronunciation and other phonological 
aspects of target utterances, including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch an extract from the introductory digital story as 

===== PDF_PAGE_784 =====
784
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
the main context for noticing the target phonological elements  (LS1, LS2, LS4) .  She/He asks them to pay 
attention to the target pronunciation and/or other phonological aspects in the current content. The teacher 
asks them to notice how the target phonological aspects are used in context. Starting with the extract from 
the digital story, students go on with other contextual examples and activities to hear and understand the 
use of target elements in context  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION  (AND OTHER PHONOLOGICAL ASPECTS ): Students 
select and use accurate, natural, and authentic target pronunciation and other phonological aspects of the 
target utterances including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme“personal 
life and well-being”. After recognition activities, students repeat the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme aloud a few times as a whole class with accurate 
and natural pronunciation and other phonological aspects after listening  (to)/watching the recordings that 
the teacher has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes or some other AI-based technologies  
(D3.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2). To help the students pronounce the target utterances including sentences, clauses, 
phrases, words, and sounds accurately, the teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as 
showing the target utterance to the students and they say it or letting them listen to the recording, then 
turning off the recording randomly and students say the utterances they hear from the recording  (D3.2, 
D3.7, D2.3).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one 
out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound exercises by getting help from 
AI technologies  (D2.5,SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). Along with the target utterances, the target 
sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are also practised in the same ways. This 
is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) as described in the section1.2.Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7). 
FURTHER PRACTICE OF THE TARGET PRONUNCIATION : Students practise pronunciation with further 
activities for practice, consolidation, feedback and reflection. The teacher could use tape recording and 
feedback techniques. Students read aloud and record a text with the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the  current  theme   provided  by  the  teacher, at home  (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.3, SELS3.1, V4.1,V5.1, LS2, LS5) . They bring their recording (s) to school. First, they listen to the 
correct pronunciation of the text,provided by the teacher, in class. Then they listen to the recordings of 
individual students. During or after listening to the texts recorded by the students at home, the students give 
self-feedback or peer feedback on the pronunciation of the words in the recordings  (D2.4, D3.6, SELS1.3, 
SELS2.2, V4.1, V12.1, V14.1, LS1, LS5) .  If available, a different version of the recording technique could be 
applied in the class. The teacher asks the students to discuss, say/talk about something, which they already 
know, related to the theme. Groups take turns to talk and the rest of the class listens  (D2.3, D2.4, SELS2.2).  
During this session, the teacher records their discussions. After each group’s performance, the class listens 
to the recording for pronunciation and everyone gives feedback on it, including the individual students who 
have spoken during the discussion  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS1). The teacher can get 
help from AI-based technologies for these activities if available. Students’ performances are evaluated as 
explained in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
pronunciation process and students talk about them individually  (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole 
class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS2, CS2.15).  After the reflection and feedback 
session, they talk again about the components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their 
ideas  (SELS1.2, V3.3, V6.2,V10.3, LS1, LS2). 
ENG7.3.V1
PREPARATION FOR THE WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To scan for finding the main components of 
the theme “personal life and well-being”, the teacher asks the students to listen to and watch the introductory 
digital story to remember the topic of content mentioned in the previous listening/watching sessions. 

===== PDF_PAGE_785 =====
785
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
The teacher also asks them to check their predictions made in the first listening/watching session at the 
beginning of the lessons on the current theme once more again  (D3.8, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, 
LS7). Then the teacher asks the students to read the relevant parts of the written version of the introductory 
digital story provided by the teacher by scanning  (reading very quickly) to check the main components 
and categories with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations with the 
headings that the teacher has previo usly written on the smart board/white board/blackboard in relation to 
the main components of the theme:  (extended) body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of 
technology in people’s lives  (D3.7,D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.8) .  Students read the 
written extract from the story very quickly to check the main components corresponding to the headings that 
the teacher has written on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on the list  (already provided 
by the teacher) at their seats  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4) . The teacher could apply different versions of scanning 
activities such as finding important components, categories, and elements on a list and circle them, looking 
at a list and finding which elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes  (LS1, LS7, 
CS2.4, CS2.8). In this way, they can understand the story in general better with the help of reading this time 
after the listening/watching sessions held earlier through the main elements and components by eliminating 
the irrelevant ones   (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, V3.4, LS1, LS2, CS2.16.1).  Students share with the whole class the 
components they have found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the teacher to them  (D2.3, 
SELS2.1).  Then they discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class  (D2.4, D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4, 
V4.2, V16.3, LS1, CS2.8). 
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY  (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  To read for the details for finding 
the new target vocabulary the teacher asks the students to read the written version of the introductory 
digital story  (or another written text for working on the target vocabulary) in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity  
(D3.2, SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the story/text and the second peer reads the other half 
silently in a given time  (V3.4, V4.1, V9.2, LS1, CS2.6). The teacher asks them to look out for new words whose 
meanings they do not know during this silent and detailed reading and asks them to look out for new  (target) 
words they have previously noted during the listening/watching sessions  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.6, D3.8, V3.3, V16.1, 
LS7). They are then asked to share these words with their peers without discussing their meanings in the 
text  (D2.4, D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V6.2).  The teacher starts working on the new  (target) words here. In this 
way, they have a detailed reading, understand the story better, and find the new  (target) words that they do 
not know to work on.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To separate key  (active) and non-key  (passive) target vocabulary 
in context: To check whether the students know any of the target key vocabulary about the content, the 
teacher asks them to say the new words whose meaning they do not know and which they have noticed 
and noted during their silent jigsaw reading session and the students do that  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, D3.2, D3.8, 
V3.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). When they say the words, the teacher writes them on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard by putting them on two lists. She/He writes the key  (active) target words on one list and the 
non-key  (passive) target words on the other list  (that she/he has already decided on earlier when planning 
the lesson).  She/He quickly covers the non-key words with examples, pictures, question-answers, however, 
spends more time on the key target words as described below  (D3.2, D3.6, V1.2, V3.4, LS2, LS4). 
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY:  To find “part/paragraph context clues” in the parts/paragraphs 
of the story  (context): The teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again, paying 
attention to which part of the story the unknown words that they do not know are in the utterances  (D3.2, 
D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4). He wants to introduce the meanings of the target key  (active) vocabulary 
related to the theme that the students do not know part by part. Then she/he asks them to read the first 
part/paragraph in the written version of the story  (or similar text) where the unknown words  (active key 
target vocabulary) appear  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS5, LS7, CS2.8). Then she/he asks them whether they 
understand the meaning of the part/paragraph  (D3.8, SELS3.1).  She/He asks them to discuss the meaning 
of the part/paragraph in pairs in general without knowing the meaning of each new target word and asks 

===== PDF_PAGE_786 =====
786
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
what helps them understand the meaning of the part/paragraph   (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, LS1, LS7). Students 
discuss the meaning of the part/paragraph in pairs  (D3.10, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.18) and report back to the 
class. The teacher takes notes on the board and writes what the part/paragraph is about in one word/clause/
sentence in the story  (V6.2, LS1, LS5, CS2.16.1). As each part/ paragraph covers a different but related piece 
of the whole topic, they realise that each part/paragraph contains new target words about a specific part of 
the whole theme. This helps them think about what each new target word in each part/paragraph could be 
about  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, CS2.16.1).  These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (5),  (6),  
(7), and  (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To find “sentence clues”/“the indirect context clues” for the target 
key  (active) words in the sentences in context: The teacher helps the students deal with each target key 
word by looking around these words in the sentences for collecting clues which can help them understand 
the meaning of these unknown target words. Starting from the first unknown target  (key) word, students are 
asked to look at the words around the target  (key) words  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.8, D3.9, D3.10, SELS3.1, LS1, CS2.1,
CS2.16.3). These clues could be linking words, adjectives, adverbs, determiners, suffixes, prefixes, time 
expressions that can help them understand the meaning of the unknown target word  (but they do not talk 
about the terminology and parts of speeches, instead they talk about the meanings and functions of these 
supportive surrounding words).  The teacher asks students to work in pairs to go through and list the “indirect 
clues” for each word  (D3.5, D3.7, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, CS2.7, CS2.17).  When they finish working in pairs, the 
teacher goes through each word with the whole class and listens to what clues they have found to understand 
the meaning of the unknown target  (key) word in the sentences   (SELS3.1,V4.1, LS7) . This is evaluated as 
described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION AND SELECTION OF TARGET VOCABULARY : To practise with the target words: To practise 
with the target vocabulary that the students work on through “sentence clues/indirect context clues”, the 
teacher checks their understanding again by showing them some realia that she/he has already provided  
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, LS5,CS2.5). The teacher shows them to the students and asks them to think about what 
they are and share them with their peers and then they check the answers with the whole class  (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.19). Then the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again and 
shows the corresponding pictures to the students when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
story, without stopping the video while they are watching the story  (LS2, LS4).  When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the realia/visual elements, etc. about the content and asks in the form of two 
options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that they already know  (D3.6, LS5, CS2.7, CS3.1). 
As they have studied the words through the “part/paragraph and sentences clues” in reading the text earlier, 
the students can choose the correct option when they hear the words for the related theme and they answer 
them after talking about them in pairs  (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, V6.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1). In this way they can 
further practise the meaning of the target words. These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  
(4),  (6),  (7),  (8) and  (9) in the section1.2 Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Further vocabulary practice through dialogical work: The 
teacher shows the story again, and from the beginning, whenever a target vocabulary item is mentioned in 
the story, the teacher stops the video and asks questions  (or lets the students ask and answer each other).  
In this way, they are engaged in various dialogues and use the target words in these dialogues  (D2.3, D3.8, 
SELS2.1, V4.1, V6.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.8).  So, they revise and practise the meanings of the target  (key) vocabulary 
of the theme. This kind of technique could be applied with different and enjoyable activities according to the 
preference of the teacher. These activities are conducted in the form of a dialogue where their learning 
can be checked as described in items  (2) and  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum. Further activities and games are played at this stage to reinforce the meaning of the 
target words by using several materials including AI-based and web 2.0  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4) . 
They can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with technology   (LS4).  

===== PDF_PAGE_787 =====
787
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8) and  (9) in the section in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Consolidation of the target vocabulary: To further practise 
the target vocabulary, the teacher can prepare an activity with images/pictures of target vocabulary using 
the web 2.0 tools. She/He mixes these images/pictures for the target vocabulary items and puts them in a 
raffle programme by using a web 2.0 tools or a real box in the classroom. She/He asks the students to take 
turns to go to the white/black board and to draw a picture related to the target components of the current 
theme  (D2.3, SELS1.2).  Then students say several things about the items in the picture  (D1.5, D2.3, V3.4, 
LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.20). The teacher asks the students in their seats to take notes while the student at the 
white/black board talks about the picture she/he has drawn and to give feedback by raising yes/no cards, or 
correcting if there are mistakes, etc., and also repeat the sentences after him/her  (D3.9, D3.10, SELS2.2, 
V3.4,CS3.3). When the student at the white/black board finishes, the teacher asks her/him to put the picture 
under the right category that she/he has previously placed on the white/black board earlier. In this way, 
images/pictures that are relevant to the concepts of the target theme will be revised and consolidated once 
again through categorisation  (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5).  The teacher asks the students to write a definition or 
an example sentence in their personal dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling and definitions  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V6.2, CS2.20). 
Students’ learning can be checked and evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8) and  (9) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. When the vocabulary session is 
over, the teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the process. 
Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the whole class  
(D1.2, D1.6, D2.1, SELS1.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  They also give feedback to each other  (D2.1, D2.4, 
V6.1, V9.2, V10.3). 
ENG7.3.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS  (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE): 
Consciousness raising- discovery for the use of target language structures in inductive learning process: 
The teacher writes some sentences on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to read 
the sentences. Then she/he asks them to watch the introductory digital story again to draw their attention 
to the use of target grammatical structures of the theme “personal life and well-being”  (D3.2, LS7) . The 
introductory digital story is replayed so that the students can notice the use of language with the target 
grammar structures  (LS2).  While watching the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes 
where the language with the target grammatical structures is used. When the students finish watching the 
introductory digital story again, the teacher asks the students to read and examine the example sentences 
carefully  (D3.2, D3.6, LS7, CS2.2, CS2.6, CS3.2). Then she/he asks the students to work in pairs and find 
similar sentences with the target grammar structure (s) in the theme to those written by her/him on the 
smart board/blackboard/whiteboard  (SELS2.2, V 3 .4,  CS2.7).  The students look at the written version of 
the story and find similar sentences to those given by the teacher as examples  (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.7).  
The teacher then asks the students to discuss and list the common features in these sentences and what 
kind of things are used repeatedly and why they think they are used in that way  (D3.1, D3.6, D3.10, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, V4.2, CS2.4, CS3.3). Students examine the teacher’s example sentences, find the similar sentences in 
the written version of the story and discuss them by making a list of similarities and repeated commonalities  
(D3.6, SELS3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.7). The teacher asks the pairs to say what they have 
found  (D2.3, CS2.10).  As the pairs say what they have found, the teacher writes them on the board and 
gives the class time to look at them and think about them  (D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.3, CS2.10, CS2.16.1, 
CS3.3). Then the teacher hands out a piece of paper and asks the students to make a rule about what they 
have noticed regarding the target structures. Students create a rule about the use of target grammatical 
structures of the theme by working in pairs and they read it to the class and give each other feedback on the 
rules  (D3.1, SELS2.2, SELS3.3, V3.3, LS1, CS2.9, CS2.16.1). The teacher shows a sentence that explains the 

===== PDF_PAGE_788 =====
788
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
rule correctly and asks the students to check if their rules are correct or the teacher gives a table in which 
the rule for the language with the target grammatical structure is incomplete. She/He asks the students 
to complete it by working in pairs  (D3.1, SELS2.2, V4.2) . Then they check the rule as the whole class and 
reflect on their experiences on how and how much they have learnt  (D2.4, SELS1.1, SELS1.3, V6.1, V10.3, 
LS1, CS2.15). This process is applied again for the other target grammatical structures in the theme if there 
are any. These activities are evaluated as described in items  (5),  (8) and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS IN CONTEXT:  Students practise the use of the 
language including the target grammatical structures: The teacher asks the students to work on grammar 
tasks she/he assigns  (D2.2, D2.3, V3.3, V3.4, CS2.13). These tasks could be the ones that the teacher 
provides. The teacher shows some other contents in the form of a dialogue, a short paragraph, a short story, 
etc. with sentences including the target grammar structures and asks the students to find the sentences 
with the target grammatical structures in them and asks if they understand them easily  (D3.2, D3.7, D3.10, 
CS2.13, CS2.20, CS3.3). She/He facilitates some oral or written activities and exercises for the students to 
further practise the target grammatical structures in context in pairs or groups  (SELS2.2).  She/He also 
facilitates more fun activities and games in which students talk, act out, mime, write, etc. with pen and 
paper, digital, AI-based, etc. materials and contexts so that they can practise and consolidate the target 
grammatical structures by selecting and using them accurately, efficiently, and naturally in context   (D2.5, 
D3.2, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, V4.4, LS2, CS2.13). They engage in several dialogic activities in which they share 
information, ideas and thoughts for communicating with their classmates. They exchange information and 
ideas to others by using target grammatical content  (D3.5, SELS2.2, V3.4) . When the session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the grammar discovery and 
use process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.3, V6.1, LS6,CS2.15). They also give feedback to each other  (D2.1, D2.4, 
V4.2, V10.3, SELS2.2). This is evaluated as described in items  (5),  (8) and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG7.3.R1
PREPARING FOR READING:  The teacher facilitates reading activities throughout the theme“personal life 
and well-being”  from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise techniques and 
the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the theme in various 
forms and amounts as it is explained above  (in the vocabulary section) in terms of how it is taught and when 
it needs to be clarified. Various reading styles such as silent reading, jigsaw reading and speed reading are 
used during the pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases. The ultimate aim of reading practice 
is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend 
and talk about the current content and related issues in a meaningful way  (V3.2, LS1, CS3.3). Students are 
provided a new text (s) to practise their reading skills through the current theme. They look at the surrounding 
visual materials, the title of the text and other supportive elements to guess the topic of the new reading 
content and they make predictions to be checked after reading the text  (D1.1, SELS3.1,V3.3, LS4, CS2.2, 
CS2.11, CS2.16.2). 
ENG7.3.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING:  Students read the new reading text carefully 
to check their predictions made in the preparation session at the beginning of the lesson  (SELS1.2, V3.4, 
LS1, CS2.8).  Then they read the text very quickly  (scanning) to check the main components and categories 
with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations that are provided by the 
teacher  (V3.3,LS4, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.6).  They compare the components they have found in the text with 
those written by the teacher on the smart board/whiteboard related to the sub-themes of “body parts, 

===== PDF_PAGE_789 =====
789
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives”   (D3.6, V10.1, V13.3, V13.4, 
LS2, LS5, CS2.7). Students read the text very quickly to check that the main components correspond to the 
headings written by the teacher on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on the list  (already 
provided by the teacher) at their desks  (V3.4, LS7, CS2.8). The teacher could use different versions of the 
scanning activities as described in the “listening/watching- comprehension” section above. In this way, they 
can understand the text in general better with the help of scanning  (CS2.16.1).  They share the components 
with the whole class  (SELS2.1) and then they discuss the accuracy of the results as a whole class   (D2.3, 
D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.2, LS1, CS2.8). 
ENG7.3.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  Students read the new text silently in pairs in a jigsaw reading 
activity as they have done in the vocabulary session earlier   (D3.2, SELS2.2,V4.1). During the reading session, 
they look out for new words whose meanings they do not know  (if there are any, other than the target words 
previously covered in the listening/watching-comprehension and vocabulary recognition sessions)  (CS2.6).  
They work on the new words in the same way as in the vocabulary sessions. Then they deal with the semantic 
meaning conveyed in the text through display questions, then semi-closed activities and then open-ended 
activities   (V3.3, V6.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.6). They deal with the meaning by using strategies from the closed to 
the open-ended range to understand the theme “personal life and well-being” in terms of the sub-themes of 
“body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives” mean from different 
perspectives to build their own understandings  (D3.6, D3.8, SELS3.1, CS2.13).  The teacher facilitates a 
number of activities to help the students improve their comprehension, synthesis and evaluation skills after 
applying the knowledge they have gained from the reading process  (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, CS2.3, CS2.17, 
CS2.20).  After this stage, they work on activities to connect their knowledge and skills they have acquired 
about the current content with CLIL  (history, maths, science, etc.) and cultural issues to be able to enrich 
their perspectives on the current theme  (D3.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V10.1, V13.3, V13.4, LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.13, 
CS2.14).  In this way, they will have the opportunity to develop their knowledge and language competence 
through reading. They can have the opportunity to develop their cognitive, emotional, cultural, social, and 
creative skills through the process of reading  (SELS3.3, V7.2, CS2.20). 
ENG7.3.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING PROCESS: Students reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation 
to the whole reading-comprehension process  (SELS1.3).  They talk about them individually and then share 
them with the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15). After the reflection and feedback 
session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas  (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, 
V4.3, V12.1, LS1). 
ENG7.3.W1.
PREPARATION FOR WRITING-EXPRESSION:  Students are facilitated throughout the theme with writing 
activities, from the first lesson to the last when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount of writing. At the beginning of the writing process, students recall their pre-existing 
knowledge about the current content to make a link between what they know and what they are going to 
write about  (D3.2, SELS1.1, CS2.12).  This includes examining all the audio/visual sources and elements 
provided for understanding the writing task  (V3.2, LS1, CS2.2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_790 =====
790
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.3.W2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL : Students listen  (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the writing task they have been given  (CS2.2).  These are limited and short pieces of writing to see how the 
language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the written language, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the  theme “personal life and well-being”. 
Initially, they practise the language in a more controlled way, writing to repeat or simply explain what they 
have heard and seen and/ or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they 
try to understand how the language is used in the target content by examining the model/example writing 
carefully  (V3.4, LS2, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the 
knowledge they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in 
relation to current content in their later free writing tasks  (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, LS1). 
ENG7.3.W3.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WRITTEN CONTENT : After working on a sample/model writing task, students 
begin to produce/construct similar tasks of their own  (V16.1).  They participate in several writing activities 
individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class  (D2.3, SELS2.2,V4.1).  Their products could range from 
writing a word to a phrase, a clause to a full sentence, a group of sentences to a short paragraph, an essay to 
a short story. These writing activities will help students to produce and display meaningful written language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme as in others  (SELS2.1, LS1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.3.W4.
PRACTISING BY PRODUCING WRITTEN CONTENT: Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
essays, diaries/journals, blogs, scripts for plays, documentaries, films, etc. to express their ideas, thoughts, 
and feelings in relation to the current  topic  (D1.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.20).  They take part 
in individual or collaborative projects to improve their writing skills together with social, cultural, cognitive, 
and affective aspects  (D1.4, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2). Within this variety, they can find the opportunities 
to show how they can use the language that they have learnt to describe and comment on the current 
content for developing new ideas about them in different genres of writing, according to their potential 
needs for expressing themselves and communication with others  (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V10.1, V13.3, V13.4, 
LS5, CS2.14, CS3.3).  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further 
writing practice  (D2.5, LS9). 
ENG7.3.W5.
PROCESS WRITING: Controlled writing of words, sentences and paragraphs turns to process writing with 
the support of the teacher’s and also peers’ feedback in the theme. This process is expanded and supported 
with additional activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, etc. to practise further by 
writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, 
enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14).  A. All 
the content is formed as contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests, 
and language level. Students improve their writing after reviewing the feedback they receive and this spiral, 
cyclical, and ongoing work becomes a progressive path for students  (D3.1, SELS1.2, V12.3, LS1, CS3.1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_791 =====
791
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.3.W6.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students communicate their ideas, thoughts 
and feelings about the sub-themes of “body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology 
in people’s lives”through their writing tasks  (V10.1, V13.3, V13.4, CS3.3).  They can use AI-based technologies 
for various activities, by having access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital written materials 
and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways to interact and communicate with peers and/or other 
people inside and outside school by using the language including target words, language chunks, and the 
social language expressions for the relevant theme in their writing  (D3.3, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V11.1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.20). All writing activities can be evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (5),  (9),  (10),  (11) and  
(12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG7.3.W7.
REFLECTING THROUGH WRITING:  The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and 
feelings in relation to the whole writing-expression process  (SELS1.3)  and students talk about them 
individually and share them with the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3,SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15).  After the reflection 
and feedback session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas  (SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1,LS1). 
SPEAKING-EXPRESSION
Practising through speaking from controlled to communicative stages: The teacher facilitates speaking 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the last. Speaking activities support students’ 
learning and help them to produce meaningful language for personal expression and communication with 
others, by using the language including the target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions of the theme.  (V3.4, V4.5, LS1, LS5). 
ENG7.3.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING : In the beginning, students recall their background knowledge about the 
theme through listening/watching and/or reading and then they talk about it  (SELS1.1, CS2.12).  Students 
practise the target language items in a controlled way, by saying, repeating, explaining what they hear and 
see in the context, for instance, in the introductory digital story and the listening and reading sections in 
different contexts  (SELS3.2).  Then they can expand their language use and practice in each section by 
increasing the amount of speaking they do  (D1.3, V3.4, LS1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.3.S2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL:  Students listen  (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the speaking task they have been given  (CS2.2).  These are limited and short pieces of speaking to see how 
the language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the spoken language, 
after hearing them through listening activities in the theme. Initially, they practise the language in a more 
controlled way, repeating some utterances, simply explaining what they have heard and seen, and/or what 
they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to understand how the language 
is used in the target content by examining the speaking model/example carefully  (V3.3, V10.1, V13.3,
V13.4, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge they 
have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to the 
current theme in their later free speaking tasks  (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, V3.4, LS5). 

===== PDF_PAGE_792 =====
792
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.3.S3.
PRODUCTION OF MEANINGFUL AND ACCURATE CONTENT:  In the later stages of the lessons, the teacher 
prepares new contexts for the students in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading the language 
including the target words and grammatical structures related to the  theme “personal life and well-being”  
in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS3.2, V7.2, LS9) . These newly created contents are 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. 
They participate in such speaking activities individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class  (D3.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.20). 
ENG7.3.S4.
CONSTRUCTING MEANINGFUL SPOKEN CONTENT:  Students produce various spoken content and their 
products could range from producing a simple utterance including a word to a phrase, a clause to a full 
sentence, a group of sentences to a short speech, a dialogue to a spoken presentation  (SELS3.3, V3.4, 
CS2.20). These speaking activities will help students to produce accurate and meaningful spoken language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme“personal life and well-being”  as in others  (D3.6, SELS2.1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.3.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Collaborative and communicative activities 
are designed and used to revise and consolidate the whole theme“personal life and well-being”  on the sub-
themes of “body parts, illnesses, and keeping good health; the place of technology in people’s lives”   (V4.5, 
LS5, CS2.13, CS2.14) . Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used 
for further speaking practice throughout the theme  (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.1, V4.2, LS4, LS9). Students 
are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, 
speeches, short texts, presentations, etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people 
inside and/or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language chunks, and 
social language expressions for the current theme  (SELS2.3, V3.4, V7.1, V7.2, LS1, CS2.20). AI-based 
technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They can 
also produce digital materials and projects for speaking at school and at home through recordings  (D3.3, 
SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V7.3, V11.1, LS2).  All these speaking activities can be evaluated as described in items  (1),  
(2),  (3),  (4),  (5),  (7),  (8),  (9),  (10), and  (11) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.
ENG7.3.S6.
REFLECTING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students are encouraged to reflect individually or collaboratively in 
groups on their own individual learning  (SELS1.3) or on their collaborative learning in pairs, groups or as a 
whole class collaboratively  (D2.3, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  The activities will help and support students in these 
feedback and reflection sessions. Their feedback is shared with peers and the teacher and takes the form 
of interactive and ongoing feedback that can help their own improvement  (SELS1.2, SELS2.1) and also they 
contribute to the improvement of their peers in their learning processes  (V4.1, V4.3,V12.1, V12.3, LS1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_793 =====
793
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To foster students’ listening and taking note skills in English by using the target vocabulary and 
the target grammatical items (Simple Past Tense-regular verbs/was-were)
Activity: What happened to you?
The teacher prepares the class for a listening activity. She/He divides the class into groups of four and hands 
out sheets to each student. She/He informs the students that they are going to listen to a text twice about 
a person who has got a health problem. The students are asked to listen to it carefully and write down the 
regular past verbs and the body parts they hear while listening.
After they have listened twice, the teacher asks them to discuss their answers with the group mates. Then 
she/he displays the text on the board to the whole class and they check the answers together. The teacher 
provides positive feedback by praising the students’ engagement in the activity. The students fill in the form 
given by the teacher to evaluate their performance (It was easy to ………., It was difficult to ……….). Students 
reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To foster students’ listening and taking note skills in English by using the target vocabulary and 
the target grammatical items (Simple Past Tense-regular verbs/was-were)
Activity: What happened to you?
Instruction: The teacher prepares the class for a listening activity. She/He divides the class into groups of 
four and hands out the sheets including a list of verbs (e.g. visit, check, rest) and body parts (e.g., a bone, a 
brain, a head) to each student. She/He informs the students that they are going to listen to a text twice about 
a person who has got a health problem. The students are asked to listen to it carefully and write down the 
regular past verbs and the body parts they hear while listening.
After they have listened twice, the teacher asks them to discuss their answers with the group mates. Then 
she/he displays the text on the board to the whole class and they check the answers together. The teacher 
provides positive feedback by praising the students’ engagement in the activity. The students fill in the form 
given by the teacher to evaluate their performance (It was easy to find the verbs/ find the body parts/write 
the past forms of the verbs., It was difficult to find the verbs/ find the body parts/write the past forms of the 
verbs.). Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_794 =====
794
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 4: FAMILY LIFE & HOME
Sub-themes:  Family members’ hobbies (sports, books, 
films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: 
problems and solutions
This theme is centred on the concept of “family life and home” and covers the 
sub-themes of “family members’ hobbies (sports , books, films, music, cooking); 
generation gap in the family: problems and solutions”. These components (sub-
themes) are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised 
use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and 
social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed 
to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within 
and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 14 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.4. Self-Efficacy, D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.1. Empathy, 
D2.2. Responsibility, D2.3. Assertiveness,  D2.4. Trust, D2.5. Playfulness,  D3.1. 
Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.4. Seeking the Truth, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning, 
D3.9. Doubting, D3.10. Critical Perspective
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1 Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2 Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill 
     Values V1. Justice, V2. Family Integrity, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, 
V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V8. Privacy, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. 
Independence, V12. Patience, V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V15. Love and 
Affection, V16. Responsibility, V20. Benevolence

===== PDF_PAGE_795 =====
795
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Visual Arts, Music, Physical Education and 
Sports, Technology and Design
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering 
Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, 
CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. 
Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation 
Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.18. Argumentation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing 
Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.2. Problem 
Solving Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_796 =====
796
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 7 is structured based on inductive approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.7.4.L1.  Students can prepare and get ready for listening (to)/watching about the current content on 
“family life and home with family members’ hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); 
generation gap in the family: problems and solutions”.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience about the current theme and 
content to recall their background knowledge by investigating it carefully.
b) Students identify significant and necessary relationships and connections between their pre-
existing knowledge, their past experience and the clues to the current content by responding 
to meaningful questions about it (without speaking Turkish or using a translation).
c) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by using their pre-existing 
knowledge and past experience of the content.
d) Students make rational predictions about the current content by looking at the supplementary 
visual elements provided. 
ENG.7.4.L2.  Students can bring together the information in the current content on “family life and home 
with family members’ hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the 
family: problems and solutions”.
a) Students identify the main topic of the current content in general by listening (to)/watching it 
as a whole in its context. 
b) Students recognise the significant details and basic components of the current content within 
the whole by listening (to) and watching the whole content carefully to notice them.
ENG.7.4.L3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “family life and 
home with family members’ hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in 
the family: problems and solutions”.
a) Students check their initial predictions about the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between their self-predictions and the clues provided as visuals surrounding 
the content.
b) Students make significant and necessary classifications in the current content that affect the 
meaning of the generally perceived content.
c) Students make significant and necessary comparisons in the generally perceived current 
content to highlight differences between two or more different things by using visuals, ensuring 
clarity and meaning.
d) Students recognise significant branching, linear or spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content.
e) Students make essential inferences and deductions to understand the meaning of the 
generally perceived current content better.
f) Students strongly recognise the holistic meaning formed by the components, comparisons, 
classifications, and details related to the current content.
g) Students construct a detailed understanding of the meaning of the current content through 
prior classifications, comparisons, and inferences/deductions.
h) Students position, internalise and personalise current content in an individualised, age-
appropriate and level-appropriate way.

===== PDF_PAGE_797 =====
797
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.7.4.L4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related 
to the listening (to)/watching process about the current content on “family life and home with 
family members’ hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: 
problems and solutions” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with 
others.
a) Students individually convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings 
that are critically reviewed in relation to the current listening (to)/watching contents and the 
process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current listening (to)/watching content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce new audio/visual products individually by revising their personal work after 
participating in reflective activities related to the listening (to)/watching process of the current 
content.
ENG.7.4.P1.  Students can select and use target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases, clauses, and sentences in utterances authentically, naturally, 
and accurately in the current content about “family life and home with family members’ hobbies 
(sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and solutions” to 
develop holistic and conscious pronunciation skills after recognising them in context. 
a) Students recognise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases and sentences in utterances within the current content by 
listening (to)/ watching it, first as a whole and then with pauses.
b) Students repeat utterances, including target sentences, clauses, phrases, and words with 
target theme-specific sounds by considering phonological aspects such as pronunciation and 
intonation accurately and naturally in the content several times as a whole class and then in 
groups and individually.
c) Students talk about the current content by taking part in small group conversations by paying 
attention to select and use accurate phonological aspects such as pronunciation, intonation, 
stress, and other features as they are understood.
d) Students reflect personally on their pronunciation and other target phonological aspects such 
as intonation after recording and listening to group conversations about the target content.
e) Students evaluate feedback from others and their personal feedback and reflection by 
listening to or watching the audio/visual content again to check for accuracy.
f) Students utilise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of utterances including target sounds of the current content, appropriately, effectively, 
accurately, naturally, automatically, and consciously when communicating with others in 
different contexts.
ENG.7.4.R1.  Students can prepare for reading the content on “family life and home with family members’ 
hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and 
solutions” efficiently and effectively.
a) Students recall and activate significant pre-existing knowledge and past experiences that can 
be related to the current theme and content through careful exploration. 
b) Students recognise significant relationships between pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to current content.
c) Students make strong preliminary predictions about the current content based on explored 
and recognised relationships.

===== PDF_PAGE_798 =====
798
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring and examining the 
audio-visual clues in relation to it.
ENG.7.4.R2.  Students can bring information together about the current content on “family life and home 
with family members’ hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the 
family: problems and solutions” through skimming, scanning and detailed reading.
a) Students skim the current content by looking very quickly and carefully at the surrounding 
visual materials to identify its general focus.
b)  Students scan the current content by reading it silently and quickly to find key and major 
components.
c) Students read the current content again silently and carefully to examine any significant 
semantic and structural details.
d) Students examine the semantic details in the content carefully to check the accuracy of their 
initial predictions.
ENG.7.4.R3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “family life and 
home with family members’ hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in 
the family: problems and solutions”.
a) Students classify significant and necessary elements of the current content in a meaningful 
way.
b) Students compare significant and key elements of the current content with each other or with 
similar ones in a meaningful way.
c) Students recognise significant and basic spiral, causal, and logical relationships in the current 
content through careful examination and analysis.
d) Students make meaningful inferences from information in the current content by examining 
it critically.
e) Students internalise their meaningful inferences from information in the current content in an 
individualised way appropriate to their age and language level.
ENG.7.4.R4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to 
the reading process about the current content on “family life and home with family members’ 
hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and 
solutions” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content 
and process with others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
ENG.7.4.V1.  Students can select and use target vocabulary efficiently, effectively, and accurately, based on 
the current content about “family life and home with family members’ hobbies (sports, books, 
films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and solutions” after recognising 
them in context and developing their conscious and inductive vocabulary learning skills.
a) Students make predictions about the main topic of the current content by identifying “general 
contextual clues” from the visual, audio, and written preparation materials provided during the 
“listening/watching for gist” and/or reading for “skimming” sessions.
b) Students check the accuracy of the predictions related to the “general contextual clue” by 
listening to, watching, and/or reading the audio, visual, and/or written content in context.

===== PDF_PAGE_799 =====
799
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students search the target audio/visual, and/or written content by scanning to find key 
components of the theme.
d) Students listen/watch the content carefully and/or read it silently to identify and underline/
circle target unknown words.
e) Students separate target (key-active) words from the other (non-key-passive) words in the 
target content.
f) Students examine relevant target words, phrases, and expressions in the current content to 
understand how and where they are used.
g)  Students determine paragraph context clues to identify the topics of the parts/paragraphs 
containing unknown target words.
h) Students discuss the meaning of the target words by finding indirect sentence context clues in 
the assigned sentences of the parts/paragraphs of the content.
i) Students determine the correct meanings of the target words in the current content in pairs 
or groups by comparing the meanings/definitions proposed.
j) Students confirm the accuracy of the meanings/definitions of the target words in  the current 
content by consulting with the teacher, the class and/or by using printed or digital dictionaries.
k) Students make use of the target words of the current theme in a range of semantically 
associated contextual activities and tasks accurately, naturally, authentically, and 
appropriately.
l) Students make use of the target words of the current theme accurately, naturally, appropriately 
and effectively through careful selection when communicating with others.
ENG.7.4.G1.  Students can select and use target grammatical language items efficiently, effectively, and 
accurately, based on the current content about “family life and home with family members’ 
hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and 
solutions”, after recognising them in context and developing their conscious and inductive 
grammaring skills through consciousness-raising and discovery.
a) Students listen to, watch, and/or read the audio, visual, and written current content presented 
in context that introduces the general use of the target language structures in the current 
theme.
b) Students examine example sentences provided by the teacher or instructional materials 
including target grammatical items to see how the target grammatical structure(s) of the 
target theme is/are used to construct a meaning or contribute to meaning.
c) Students analyse current audio, visual, and/or written content presented in context to identify 
sentences similar to those provided as examples.
d) Students find the commonalities between the sentences identified and those exemplified by 
the teacher or materials through careful comparison in pairs and/or groups.
e) Students discover the characteristics of the commonalities in the sentences in the current 
content by discussing them in pairs or groups as an awareness/consciousness-raising activity.
f) Students formulate rule(s) about the same/target grammar structure(s) of the current theme 
based on their observations and discussions in pairs or groups.
g) Students engage in contextual activities on the use of target grammatical structures 
(grammaring) of the current theme to explain and justify the grammar rule(s) they have 
discovered.
h) Students practise to consolidate their understanding of the target grammar that they 
discovered by selecting accurate and meaningful items in meaningful and contextualised 
activities.

===== PDF_PAGE_800 =====
800
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
i) Students produce accurate and unique verbal or written content by using target grammar 
consciously and in a natural way, without thinking about the rules.
j) Students produce new spoken/written content by using the target grammatical structures 
efficiently, authentically, automatically, and naturally in context when communicating with 
others without thinking about rules.
ENG.7.4.W1.  Students can prepare for writing efficiently and accurately based on the current content about 
“family life and home with family members’ hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); 
generation gap in the family: problems and solutions”.
a) Students relate pre-existing knowledge and experiences from initial listening, watching, and 
reading processes to current content by examining and activating them.
b) Students understand what the current writing task requires in terms of content and purpose in 
relation to the current content accurately by applying pre-existing knowledge and experiences, 
following guided instructions.
ENG.7.4.W2.  Students can analyse and understand a provided model to guide them in producing similar 
writing tasks related to the content on “family life and home with family members’ hobbies 
(sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and solutions”.
a) Students grasp the significant and basic components of the content in the model/sample 
provided for the assigned writing task, including word selection and use, grammar selection 
and use, and other details such as type, style, and meaning as required.
ENG.7.4.W3.  Students can construct new written content on “family life and home with family members’ 
hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and 
solutions” based on their understanding of the model(s) provided.
a) Students share their ideas and thoughts by brainstorming through collaborative discussion to 
generate ideas for the new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current 
theme.
b) Students plan how the knowledge and ideas generated during the brainstorming session can 
be applied to their new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current theme.
c) Students conduct preliminary research relevant to the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) 
writing task on the current content, considering the type of writing, age appropriateness, and 
language level.
d) Students produce a well-organised and detailed draft relevant to the (prepared and/or 
unprepared) type of writing and appropriate for the age and language level.
e) Students organise and develop contextual materials relevant to the type of the assigned task 
(prepared and/or unprepared) and appropriate to age and language level.
f) Students modify the content they produce for the assigned writing task in a coherent and 
meaningful way, consistent with the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) type of writing, 
and appropriate to the age and language level.
ENG.7.4.W4.  Students can practise producing written content based on the current theme “family life and 
home with family members’ hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in 
the family: problems and solutions”.
a) Students present relevant supportive materials appropriate to the assigned (prepared and/
or unprepared) writing task, considering the type of writing and appropriate to the age and 
language level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and strategies for the assigned (prepared 
and/or unprepared) writing task, considering its writing type and appropriate to their age and 
language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_801 =====
801
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students use target words and grammatical language structures accurately and appropriately 
in their writing tasks, by selecting necessary and appropriate ones in line with the assigned 
type of writing and appropriate to the age and language level.
d) Students express their messages about the current content clearly to the reader in the 
assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task.
ENG.7.4.W5.  Students can engage in the process of writing related to the content on “family life and home 
with family members’ hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the 
family: problems and solutions”.
a) Students review the feedback from the teacher and/or peers critically on their prepared and/
or unprepared writing task(s).
b) Students revise to reorganise the written content of their prepared and/or unprepared task 
based on the feedback received from the teacher and/or peers.
c) Students refine and develop their written content produced for their prepared/unprepared 
writing task through the iterative feedback process.
ENG.7.4.W6.  Students can reconstruct their writing about the current theme on “family life and home with 
family members’ hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: 
problems and solutions” to communicate effectively about it.
a) Students adapt and use individually internalised information in current or similar content by 
selecting and reorganising it meaningfully in written form as necessary when communicating 
with other people in different contexts.
b) Students exchange information and ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge and content with others.
ENG.7.4.W7.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the writing 
process about the current content on “family life and home with family members’ hobbies 
(sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and solutions” 
in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings they review 
critically in relation to their current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current writing-expression content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce their new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current writing-expression content and process.
ENG.7.4.S1.  Students can prepare themselves to speak meaningfully, fluently, and efficiently about the 
current content on “family life and home with family members’ hobbies (sports, books, films, 
music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and solutions”.
a) Students relate current content by analysing pre-existing knowledge and experiences from 
earlier listening, watching, and reading sessions to associate them with the current content.
ENG.7.4.S2.  Students can analyse and understand the model content related to “family life and home with 
family members’ hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: 
problems and solutions” to support the production of spoken language.
a) Students grasp what the provided model/example is about with the help of audio, visual, and/
or written elements after listening, watching, and/or reading the current content.
ENG.7.4.S3.  Students can produce meaningful and accurate spoken content related to the current theme 
on “family life and home with family members’ hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); 
generation gap in the family: problems and solutions”.

===== PDF_PAGE_802 =====
802
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students recognise which form and type of spoken content is expected and assigned based on 
the  model/example about the current theme for both prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations through careful examination.
b) Students conduct preliminary research on the expected and assigned content to be produced  
for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students develop a draft outline in accordance with the assigned prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations as presented in the model/example, appropriate to the age and language 
level based on the current current.
d) Students organise supplementary audio-visual materials in accordance with the assigned 
task as presented in the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations 
and appropriate to their age and language level. 
e) Students organise information related to the current content to be presented, appropriate to 
the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
f) Students critically review their prepared presentation content for accuracy, coherence, and 
appropriateness to audience and context in prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.7.4.S4.  Students can construct meaningful spoken content about “family life and home with family 
members’ hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: 
problems and solutions” through efficient and meaningful practice.
a) Students make spoken content clear and understandable to listeners by selecting and using 
style and form appropriate to age and language level in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
b) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using materials appropriate to the 
context, age, language level, style, and type of discourse, similar to those presented in the 
model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using target vocabulary and language 
structures similar and/or appropriate to those presented in the model/example considering 
their age, language level, context, style, and type of discourse for prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations.
d) Students convey relevant explicit, implicit, and/or complex messages related to the current 
content clearly in context to the listeners by using appropriate material and body language in 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
e) Students convey their messages about the current content clearly to the listeners by 
incorporating all the necessary semantic elements in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
ENG.7.4.S5.  Students can reconstruct the information about “family life and home with family members’ 
hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and 
solutions” when communicating with others.
a) Students use the same or similar information presented in the current content in verbal or 
written forms in different contexts by reorganising it meaningfully, accurately, effectively, 
efficiently, functionally, and individually as required.
b) Students engage in verbal and/or written communication by sharing the reconstructed 
meaningful information about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_803 =====
803
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.7.4.S6.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the 
speaking process about the current content on “family life and home with family members’ 
hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and 
solutions” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students reveal their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they review critically 
in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
critically review in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process with 
others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_804 =====
804
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
FAMILY LIFE & HOME
Sub-themes:  Family members’ hobbies ( sports ,books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family; 
problems and solutions
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary): 
Vocabulary for family members’ hobbies (sports, books, films, music, cooking): 
Nouns: A possession, a novel, a story, a library, a scene, a choice, a fiction, an author, a character, an 
adventure, a drama, an animation, classical music, Turkish classical music, folk music, jazz.
Verbs: To manage, to publish, to taste, to collect, to bake.
Adjectives: Original, scary.
Adverbs: Nearly.
Vocabulary for generation gap in the family: problems and solutions:
Nouns: A tradition, advice, a lifestyle, a behaviour, an argument, a relationship, a teenager, an adult.
Verbs: To mind, to give a try, to have a bond, to give harm.
Adjectives: Teenage.
Adverbs: Almost, anyway, unfortunately, luckily.
Conjunction: As, since (because).
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will be 
age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A table 
for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Simple Past Tense (Irregular verbs): (The author published a new novel last year).
-Question tags for the Simple Past Tense: (They had an argument yesterday).
-Shall for suggestions: (Shall we watch an animation?)
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of the Simple Past Tense (Irregular verbs): Describing an action that happened in the past.
-Use of question tags for the Simple Past Tense: Confirming information in the past.
-Use of shall for suggestions: Suggesting actions in the near future.
Target Social Language in Use:
My mum’s mad about cooking new recipes!
My parents think I’m glued to my phone! 
We try to meet halfway on family activities!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
a, b, c, d, e
Vowels: a: (/ae/, /aeı/, /ə/,  /a:/,  /eɪ/,  /a:/,  /a/,   /ɔː/,  /eə/); e: (/e/; /i:/, /ə/)
Consonants: b: (/b/), silent /b/); c: (/si/, /k/); d: (/d/)
 *(Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_805 =====
805
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “family life and home” and its components such as “family members’ 
hobbies (sports , books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and solutions” is 
present in almost all languages. People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge 
with them and transfer it to their new language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will 
know what “family life and home” and its components such as “family members’ hobbies (sports ,books, films, 
music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and solutions” means but will not know how to say 
them in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing 
knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more 
easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts: 
Family, family  members, hobbies, family members’ hobbies (sports ,books, films, music, cooking); generation 
gap, generation gap  in the family, family  problems,  solutions to family  problems. 
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will create a short story about their family members’ hobbies, 
focusing on how different generations in their family spend their free time. They will describe at least two 
family members from different age groups, such as a grandparent and a sibling, emphasising their favourite 
hobbies like sports, films, books, music, or cooking. Students will also identify one potential problem caused 
by the generation gap, such as disagreements over music or technology use, and suggest a creative solution 
to bring the family closer together. This assignment will encourage students to explore family dynamics 
while practicing descriptive and problem-solving skills. The assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric 
scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “family life and home” and its components such as 
“family members’ hobbies (sports ,books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and 
solutions”. As they are lower secondary school students in year 7 (seven), they can know what “family life 
and home” and its components such as “family members’ hobbies (sports ,books, films, music, cooking); 
generation gap in the family: problems and solutions” mean in their own language as it is known that almost 
all people who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with 
them and transfer it to their new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these 
things in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this 
existing knowledge in their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily 
in a foreign language, in this case English.
As they are students in year 7 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “family 
life and home” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or years. These 
grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning of the year, and 
they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current theme, so 
that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “family life and home” and its components such as “family members’ hobbies (sports 
,books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and solutions”. Recalling and 
practising with relevant vocabulary and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous 
years would be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “family 

===== PDF_PAGE_806 =====
806
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
life and home”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary and grammatical items 
from the previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In 
this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are 
able to understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the 
current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge 
and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated 
by rubrics throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students are asked to recall the concept of “family life and home” by remembering their pre-existing 
background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with 
the current activities in the theme in English without saying anything in Turkish and without translating 
anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English. To remind them 
of their pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, many materials 
such as “a scene from a short film, a passage from a book, a part from a personal diary (journal),  a part of a 
story, a collection of pictures, a part of an animation, a poster, an excerpt from a video etc.” related to this 
content can be shared with the class before the main teaching/learning flow begins. The materials about 
the current concept would give a general idea of the theme. Students are work on the material according to 
the instructions and try to grasp it. The teacher tries to check if they have an idea about the topic of the new 
theme with several activities. When they have finished working on them, the teacher asks them in English 
if they have understood what has been in the material. She/He asks them to write a related words that they 
already know (learnt in previous years) in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/ box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways for checking their comprehension could be tried by the teacher.
They wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the theme, the digital 
introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the  theme“family life and home”   in the classroom, to prepare the students 
emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as 
an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their 
well-being  (D1.5, V12.1, V13.4). This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/
singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote, 
a very short story, watching a pantomime/online story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current 
theme and does not require any knowledge of the current theme in English  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.4, V7.2, 
V13.2, LS4). That is only for relaxation and preparation for the lesson.
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills are used in an integrated way around a central topic “family life and home”   and the sub-
themes of “family members’ hobbies  (sports , books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: 
problems and solutions” , allowing students to build background knowledge through receptive skills before 
moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful 
way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are sequenced from 
receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely linked way 
that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development and to increase 
communicative competence. The theme “family life and home”   is characterised by a balanced integration 
of all the skills, where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-
comprehension) and respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of 
their grammar, vocabulary and phonological selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_807 =====
807
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.4.L1.
PREPARATION FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students prepare to access the introduction to the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to remember what they have done during the “establishing links” 
session for recalling background knowledge about the related concept where they watched a short film 
scene prepared for that section  (which is not a part of the introductory digital story of the theme)  (D3.2, 
V3.4,LS1, LS2, LS4).  They remember what they already know about the content to prepare themselves to 
work on guessing the topic of the current theme  (V2.3, V2.4, V8.3, V15.1, LS1, LS5) .They prepare to access 
the main materials of the theme for having connections by making predictions based on the short film in the 
“establishing links” session  (D3.8, V3.3, LS1, LS4). 
ENG7.4. L2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER BY LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students collect “general context clues” to 
understand the whole content by looking at visual clues before listening  (to)/watching. The teacher asks the 
students to look at any visual material such as pictures, posters, and realia related to the current content to 
identify the topic of the content and to answer the question “What is the whole content about?”  (D3.6, V2.3, 
V2.4, V8.3, V15.1, LS1, LS4, LS5,CS2.2) They can realise that there might be different elements related to 
this concept  (D2.1, V4.5) . The teacher asks them to look at the visuals quickly to make predictions about 
the topic of the whole theme by using the “listening  (to)/watching for gist” strategy before listening/watching 
the main visual material of the theme, which is the introductory digital story  (D3.8, V4.5, LS1, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.11). The teacher asks the students to read the title of the theme and asks them to brainstorm by thinking 
about which words they already know and whichwords come to mind in connection with the title  (D3.4, LS2, 
CS2.12, CS2.16.2). She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new/target words they do not know 
at this stage of the lesson. She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity to guess the general 
topic/theme of the context by using the words they already know and that there will be time to work on the 
new words of the current content later  (D1.4, V12.2). At this stage, some guessing games can be played to 
guess the main topic of the current content/theme by using the clues from the additional visuals such as 
pictures, posters, etc. related to the content, prepared and produced by the teacher, by using web 2.0 tools  
(D2.5, D3.3,SELS2.1, V3.4, LS2, LS4, CS2.12). 
ENG7.4.L3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  Students identify and recognise the topic of the 
current theme by listening  (to)/watching the introductory digital story that provides a context for the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the introductory digital story to recognise the 
topic of the theme in general  (This is a kind of preparation to work on the target key vocabulary in the later 
stages of the lesson (s)  (D3.2, V3.4). The teacher asks the students to recall the work done with visuals  (the 
scene from a short film) in the “establishing links” session about the current context shown earlier during the 
listening  (to)/ watching session  (D3.2, LS2). Students watch the digital introductory story and consolidate 
the identification of the target theme as a whole  (CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that 
the students can hear/ see the context as a whole and understand the theme holistically   (D3.1, V2.3, V2.4, 
V8.3, V15.1, LS2, LS4, LS5). 
MAKING MEANING THROUGH THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE THEME BY LISTENING/W ATCHINfG:  
Students find and identify the main components of the current content by listening  (to)/watching the 
context quickly through scanning. The teacher organises a scanning activity to find out the components as 
the basic and most important details of the current content through the introductory digital story to help 
students learn and know more about the current theme. She/He asks the students to listen and watch the 
story again without stopping, by scanning/looking for any relevant words or concepts that are heard in the 
story  (D3.6, V3.4, LS2, LS4, LS7). The teacher hands out a sheet to the students on which there is a list of 

===== PDF_PAGE_808 =====
808
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
words/phrases, etc. to tick, circle or underline. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard through 
watching the story very quickly without stopping. The teacher could apply different versions of scanning 
activities such as finding important elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which 
elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, LS1, CS2.4 ).  In this 
way, they will be able to understand the story in general through the main elements and components by 
eliminating the irrelevant ones. Students share with the whole class the words and components they have 
found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the teacher to them  (D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.4). Then they 
discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class  (SELS2.2, CS2.8).  This is evaluated as described in 
items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After having 
watched the introductory digital story, the teacher places five headings on the smart board/whiteboard/
blackboard which are on the target vocabulary list of the related theme as clues to the components of the 
current theme  (D3.7, V2.3, V2.4, V8.3, V15.1, LS5) . She/He places a corresponding picture next to each 
component and writes the name of each heading. She/He guides students to understand the heading of 
each category with the help of pictures. The teacher asks the students to work with the words they already 
know during this phase of the lesson  (SELS1.2).  Students work on these categories with the help of the 
scenes from the introductory digital story  (D3.6, LS2, LS4) . The teacher reads the headings aloud a few 
times by pointing to the corresponding pictures on the board and the students repeat them. Then the 
students say the headings all together. For working on the sub-themes of “family members’ hobbies  (sports 
, books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and solutions” further, the teacher 
asks volunteers to go to the board and choose the picture  (already provided by the teacher) to stick/pin/ 
drag it on the white/black board or the smart board  (if the teacher asks)  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.2,V3.4, 
V20.4, LS2, LS4).  Then, they say the headings  (components) together as a whole class. In this way, the 
main components of the theme“family life and home”   are introduced to the students in English (LS5.) At this 
stage, the meanings of the target words are not studied, but the categorisation of the basic components 
contributes to their recognition of the concept in general. The teacher could ask the students to decide 
which words in the introductory digital story they do not know and to note them while reading the text later 
in the reading session  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.8, SELS1.1, V3.4). This could be evaluated as described in items  (1),  (2),  
(3),  (6)  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. All this 
work helps them understand the main categories through classifications and also the inferences they make 
while listening to and watching the introductory digital story and/or examining the picture related to the 
content. In this way, they recognise and comprehend the main concept as a whole through categorisation, 
comparison, and inference  (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5, V3.3, LS2, LS4, LS7). 
ENG7.4.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS : Students check the accuracy of their prior 
guesses, reflect on their ideas and feelings about the listening/watching session, and give feedback to each 
other. After the students listen  (to)/watch the introductory digital story to find the main components of 
the theme, the teacher asks them whether their guesses they made during the “establishing links” session, 
looking at visuals session, and their first listening  (to)/watching session have been correct  (D3.8,V4.2, V4.3, 
LS2, LS4).  As they have already seen a scene from a short film created about the concept of the current 
theme, during the “establishing links” session earlier, and looked at some supplementary visuals  (pictures, 
the title of the theme) and also they saw the picture related to the introductory digital story they can easily 
answer what the current theme is about and that their guesses were correct  (D3.4, V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, 
CS2.8). The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
listening  (to)/watching process and students talk about them individually  (SELS1.3) and share them with 
the whole class  (D2.3, SELS.2.1, V4.2).  After the reflection and feedback session, they talk again about the 
components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their ideas  (SELS2.2, V4.2, V10.3). 

===== PDF_PAGE_809 =====
809
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.4.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Students recognise the pronunciation and other phonological 
aspects of target utterances, including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch an extract from the introductory digital story as 
the main context for noticing the target phonological elements  (LS1, LS2, LS4) .  She/He asks them to pay 
attention to the target pronunciation and/or other phonological aspects in the current content. The teacher 
asks them to notice how the target phonological aspects are used in context. Starting with the extract from 
the digital story, students go on with other contextual examples and activities to hear and understand the 
use of target elements in context  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION  (AND OTHER PHONOLOGICAL ASPECTS ): Students 
select and use accurate, natural, and authentic target pronunciation and other phonological aspects of the 
target utterances including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme “family life 
and home”  . After recognition activities, students repeat the target utterances including sentences, clauses, 
phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme aloud a few times as a whole class with accurate and 
natural pronunciation and other phonological aspects after listening  (to)/watching the recordings that the 
teacher has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes or some other AI-based technologies  
(D3.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2). To help the students pronounce the target utterances including sentences, clauses, 
phrases, words, and sounds accurately, the teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as 
showing the target utterance to the students and they say it or letting them listen to the recording, then 
turning off the recording randomly and students say the utterances they hear from the recording  (D3.2, 
D3.7, D2.3).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one 
out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound exercises by getting help from 
AI technologies  (D2.5,SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). Along with the target utterances, the target 
sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are also practised in the same ways. This 
is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) as described in the section1.2.Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7). 
FURTHER PRACTICE OF THE TARGET PRONUNCIATION : Students practise pronunciation with further 
activities for practice, consolidation, feedback and reflection. The teacher could use tape recording and 
feedback techniques. Students read aloud and record a text with the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the  current  theme   provided  by  the  teacher, at home  (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.3, SELS3.1, V4.1,V5.1, LS2, LS5) . They bring their recording (s) to school. First, they listen to the 
correct pronunciation of the text,provided by the teacher, in class. Then they listen to the recordings of 
individual students. During or after listening to the texts recorded by the students at home, the students give 
self-feedback or peer feedback on the pronunciation of the words in the recordings  (D2.4, D3.6, SELS1.3, 
SELS2.2, V4.1, V12.1, V14.1, LS1,LS5).  If available, a different version of the recording technique could be 
applied in the class. The teacher asks the students to discuss, say/talk about something, which they already 
know, related to the theme. Groups take turns to talk and the rest of the class listens  (D2.3, D2.4, SELS2.2).  
During this session, the teacher records their discussions. After each group’s performance, the class listens 
to the recording for pronunciation and everyone gives feedback on it, including the individual students who 
have spoken during the discussion  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS1). The teacher can get 
help from AI-based technologies for these activities if available. Students’ performances are evaluated as 
explained in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
pronunciation process and students talk about them individually  (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole 
class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS2,CS2.15) .  After the reflection and feedback 
session, they talk again about the components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their 
ideas  (SELS1.2, V3.3, V6.2,V10.3, LS1, LS2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_810 =====
810
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.4.V1
PREPARATION FOR THE WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To scan for finding the main components 
of the theme“family life and home”   ,  the teacher asks the students to listen to and watch the introductory 
digital story to remember the topic of content mentioned in the previous listening/watching sessions. 
The teacher also asks them to check their predictions made in the first listening/watching session at the 
beginning of the lessons on the current theme once more again  (D3.8, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS7). 
Then the teacher asks the students to read the relevant parts of the written version of the introductory 
digital story provided by the teacher by scanning  (reading very quickly) to check the main components 
and categories with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations with the 
headings that the teacher has previously written on the smart board/white board/blackboard in relation to 
the main components of 0  “family life and home”   (D3.7, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.8). 
Students read the written extract from the story very quickly to check the main components corresponding 
to the headings that the teacher has written on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on the list  
(already provided by the teacher) at their seats  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4). The teacher could apply different versions 
of scanning activities such as finding important components, categories, and elements on a list and circle 
them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes  
(LS1, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.8). In this way, they can understand the story in general better with the help of reading 
this time after the listening/watching sessions held earlier through the main elements and components by 
eliminating the irrelevant ones   (D3.2,D3.6, D3.7, V3.4, LS1, LS2, CS2.16.1). Students share with the whole 
class the components they have found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the teacher to them  
(D2.3, SELS2.1).  Then they discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class  (D2.4,D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, 
V3.4, V4.2, V16.3, LS1, CS2.8). 
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY  (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  To read for the details for finding 
the new target vocabulary the teacher asks the students to read the written version of the introductory 
digital story  (or another written text for working on the target vocabulary) in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity  
(D3.2, SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the story/text and the second peer reads the other half 
silently in a given time  (V3.4, V4.1, V9.2, LS1, CS2.6). The teacher asks them to look out for new words whose 
meanings they do not know during this silent and detailed reading and asks them to look out for new  (target) 
words they have previously noted during the listening/watching sessions  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.6, D3.8, V3.3, V16.1, 
LS7). They are then asked to share these words with their peers without discussing their meanings in the 
text  (D2.4, D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2,V6.2).  The teacher starts working on the new  (target) words here. In this 
way, they have a detailed reading, understand the story better, and find the new  (target) words that they do 
not know to work on.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To separate key  (active) and non-key  (passive) target vocabulary 
in context: To check whether the students know any of the target key vocabulary about the content, the 
teacher asks them to say the new words whose meaning they do not know and which they have noticed 
and noted during their silent jigsaw reading session and the students do that  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, D3.2, D3.8, 
V3.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). When they say the words, the teacher writes them on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard by putting them on two lists. She/He writes the key  (active) target words on one list and the 
non-key  (passive) target words on the other list  (that she/he has already decided on earlier when planning 
the lesson).  She/He quickly covers the non-key words with examples, pictures, question-answers, however, 
spends more time on the key target words as described below  (D3.2, D3.6, V1.2,V3.4, LS2, LS4). 
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY:  To find “part/paragraph context clues” in the parts/paragraphs 
of the story  (context): The teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again, paying 
attention to which part of the story the unknown words that they do not know are in the utterances  (D3.2, 
D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4). He wants to introduce the meanings of the target key  (active) vocabulary 
related to the theme that the students do not know part by part. Then she/he asks them to read the first 

===== PDF_PAGE_811 =====
811
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
part/paragraph in the written version of the story  (or similar text) where the unknown words  (active key 
target vocabulary) appear  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS5, LS7, CS2.8). Then she/he asks them whether they 
understand the meaning of the part/paragraph  (D3.8, SELS3.1).  She/He asks them to discuss the meaning 
of the part/paragraph in pairs in general without knowing the meaning of each new target word and asks 
what helps them understand the meaning of the part /paragraph   (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, LS1, LS7). Students 
discuss the meaning of the part/paragraph in pairs  (D3.10, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.18) and report back to the 
class. The teacher takes notes on the board and writes what the part/paragraph is about in one word/clause/
sentence in the story  (V6.2, LS1, LS5, CS2.16.1). As each part/ paragraph covers a different but related piece 
of the whole topic, they realise that each part/paragraph contains new target words about a specific part of 
the whole theme. This helps them think about what each new target word in each part/paragraph could be 
about  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, CS2.16.1).  These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (5),  (6),  
(7), and  (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To find “sentence clues”/“the indirect context clues” for the target 
key  (active) words in the sentences in context: The teacher helps the students deal with each target key 
word by looking around these words in the sentences for collecting clues which can help them understand 
the meaning of these unknown target words. Starting from the first unknown target  (key) word, students 
are asked to look at the words around the target  (key) words  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.8, D3.9, D3.10, SELS3.1, LS1, 
CS2.1,CS2.16.3). These clues could be linking words, adjectives, adverbs, determiners, suffixes, prefixes, 
time expressions that can help them understand the meaning of the unknown target word  (but they do not 
talk about the terminology and parts of speeches, instead they talk about the meanings and functions of 
these supportive surrounding words).  The teacher asks students to work in pairs to go through and list the 
“indirect clues” for each word  (D3.5,D3.7, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, CS2.7, CS2.17). When they finish working in 
pairs, the teacher goes through each word with the whole class and listens to what clues they have found 
to understand the meaning of the unknown target  (key) word in the sentences  (SELS3.1,V4.1, LS7). This is 
evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION AND SELECTION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To practise with the target words: To practise 
with the target vocabulary that the students work on through “sentence clues/indirect context clues”, the 
teacher checks their understanding again by showing them some realia that she/he has already provided  
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, LS5,CS2.5). The teacher shows them to the students and asks them to think about what 
they are and share them with their peers and then they check the answers with the whole class  (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.19). Then the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again and 
shows the corresponding pictures to the students when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
story, without stopping the video while they are watching the story  (LS2, LS4).  When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the realia/visual elements, etc. about the content and asks in the form of two 
options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that they already know  (D3.6, LS5, CS2.7, CS3.1). 
As they have studied the words through the “part/paragraph and sentences clues” in reading the text earlier, 
the students can choose the correct option when they hear the words for the related theme and they answer 
them after talking about them in pairs  (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, V6.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1). In this way they can 
further practise the meaning of the target words. These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  
(4),  (6),  (7),  (8) and  (9) in the section1.2 Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Further vocabulary practice through dialogical work: The 
teacher shows the story again, and from the beginning, whenever a target vocabulary item is mentioned 
in the story, the teacher stops the video and asks questions  (or lets the students ask and answer each 
other).  In this way, they are engaged in various dialogues and use the target words in these dialogues  (D2.3, 
D3.8, SELS2.1,V4.1, V6.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.8) . So, they revise and practise the meanings of the target  (key) 
vocabulary of the theme “family life and home”  . This kind of technique could be applied with different and 
enjoyable activities according to the preference of the teacher. These activities are conducted in the form of 

===== PDF_PAGE_812 =====
812
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (2) and  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Further activities and games are played at this stage to 
reinforce the meaning of the target words by using several materials including AI-based and Web 2.0  (D2.5, 
SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4). They can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem 
with technology  (LS4). These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8) and  (9) in the 
section in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Consolidation of the target vocabulary: To further practise 
the target vocabulary, the teacher can prepare an activity with images/pictures of target vocabulary using 
the web 2.0 tools. She/He mixes these images/pictures for the target vocabulary items and puts them in 
a raffle programme by using a web 2.0 tools or a real box in the classroom. She/He asks the students to 
take turns to go to the white/black board and to draw a picture related to the target components of the 
current theme  (D2.3, SELS1.2).  Then students say several things about the items in the picture  (D1.5, 
D2.3, V3.4, LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.20). The teacher asks the students in their seats to take notes while the 
student at the white/black board talks about the picture she/he has drawn and to give feedback by raising 
yes/no cards, or correcting if there are mistakes, etc., and also repeat the sentences after him/her  (D3.9, 
D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4,CS3.3). When the student at the white/black board finishes, the teacher asks her/
him to put the picture under the right category that she/he has previously placed on the white/black board 
earlier. In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the concepts of the target  theme will be revised 
and consolidated once again through categorisation  (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5).  The teacher asks the students to 
write a definition or an example sentence in their personal dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their 
dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling and definitions  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, 
V6.2 ,CS2.20). Students’ learning can be checked and evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8) 
and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. When the vocabulary 
session is over, the teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the 
process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.1, SELS1.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  They also give feedback to each other  
(D2.1, D2.4, V6.1, V9.2, V10.3). 
ENG7.4.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS  (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  Consciousness raising- 
discovery for the use of target language structures in inductive learning process: The teacher writes some 
sentences on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to read the sentences. Then she/he 
asks them to watch the introductory digital story again to draw their attention to the use of target grammatical 
structures of the theme  “family life and home”   (D3.2, LS7). The introductory digital story is replayed so that 
the students can notice the use of language with the target grammar structures  (LS2). While watching the 
introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the language with the target grammatical 
structures is used. When the students finish watching the introductory digital story again, the teacher asks 
the students to read and examine the example sentences carefully  (D3.2, D3.6, LS7, CS2.2, CS2.6, CS3.2). 
Then she/he asks the students to work in pairs and find similar sentences with the target grammar structure 
(s) in the theme to those written by her/him on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard  (SELS2.2, V 3 .4 , 
CS2.7).  The students look at the written version of the story and find similar sentences to those given by the 
teacher as examples  (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.7).  The teacher then asks the students to discuss and list the 
common features in these sentences and what kind of things are used repeatedly and why they think they 
are used in that way  (D3.1, D3.6, D3.10, SELS3.1, V3.3, V4.2, CS2.4, CS3.3). Students examine the teacher’s 
example sentences, find the similar sentences in the written version of the story and discuss them by making 
a list of similarities and repeated commonalities  (D3.6, SELS3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.7). The 
teacher asks the pairs to say what they have found  (D2.3, CS2.10).  As the pairs say what they have found, 
the teacher writes them on the board and gives the class time to look at them and think about them  (D3.6, 
D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.3, CS2.10, CS2.16.1, CS3.3). Then the teacher hands out a piece of paper and asks the 

===== PDF_PAGE_813 =====
813
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
students to make a rule about what they have noticed regarding the target structures. Students create a 
rule about the use of target grammatical structures of the theme by working in pairs and they read it to the 
class and give each other feedback on the rules  (D3.1, SELS2.2, SELS3.3, V3.3, LS1, CS2.9 ,CS2.16.1). The 
teacher shows a sentence that explains the rule correctly and asks the students to check if their rules are 
correct or the teacher gives a table in which the rule for the language with the target grammatical structure 
is incomplete. She/He asks the students to complete it by working in pairs  (D3.1, SELS2.2, V4.2) . Then 
they check the rule as the whole class and reflect on their experiences on how and how much they have 
learnt  (D2.4, SELS1.1, SELS1.3, V6.1, V10.3, LS1, CS2.15). This process is applied again for the other target 
grammatical structures in the theme if there are any. These activities are evaluated as described in items  
(5),  (8) and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS IN CONTEXT:  Students practise the use of the 
language including the target grammatical structures: The teacher asks the students to work on grammar 
tasks she/he assigns  (D2.2, D2.3, V3.3, V3.4, CS2.13). These tasks could be the ones that the teacher 
provides. The teacher shows some other contents in the form of a dialogue, a short paragraph, a short story, 
etc. with sentences including the target grammar structures and asks the students to find the sentences 
with the target grammatical structures in them and asks if they understand them easily  (D3.2, D3.7, D3.10, 
CS2.13, CS2.20, CS3.3). She/He facilitates some oral or written activities and exercises for the students to 
further practise the target grammatical structures in context in pairs or groups  (SELS2.2).  She/He also 
facilitates more fun activities and games in which students talk, act out, mime, write, etc. with pen and 
paper, digital, AI-based, etc. materials and contexts so that they can practise and consolidate the target 
grammatical structures by selecting and using them accurately, efficiently, and naturally in context 
  (D2.5, D3.2, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, V4.4, LS2, CS2.13). They engage in several dialogic activities in which they 
share information, ideas and thoughts for communicating with their classmates. They exchange information 
and ideas to others by using target grammatical content  (D3.5, SELS2.2, V3.4) . When the session is over, 
the teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the grammar discovery 
and use process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates 
and the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.3, V6.1, LS6,CS2.15). They also give feedback to each other  
(D2.1, D2.4, V4.2, V10.3, SELS2.2). This is evaluated as described in items  (5),  (8) and  (9) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG7.4.R1
PREPARING FOR READING:  The teacher facilitates reading activities throughout the  theme  “family life 
and home”  from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the theme in various forms 
and amounts as it is explained above  (in the vocabulary section) in terms of how it is taught and when it 
needs to be clarified. Various reading styles such as silent reading, jigsaw reading and speed reading are 
used during the pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases. The ultimate aim of reading practice 
is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend 
and talk about the current content and related issues in a meaningful way  (V3.2, LS1, CS3.3). Students are 
provided a new text (s) to practise their reading skills through the current theme. They look at the surrounding 
visual materials, the title of the text and other supportive elements to guess the topic of the new reading 
content and they make predictions to be checked after reading the text  (D1.1, SELS3.1,V3.3, LS4, CS2.2, 
CS2.11, CS2.16.2). 
ENG7.4.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: Students read the new reading text carefully to 
check their predictions made in the preparation session at the beginning of the lesson  (SELS1.2, V3.4, LS1, 
CS2.8).  Then they read the text very quickly  (scanning) to check the main components and categories with 

===== PDF_PAGE_814 =====
814
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations that are provided by the teacher  
(V3.3,LS4, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.6).  They compare the components they have found in the text with those written 
by the teacher on the smart board/whiteboard related to the sub-themes of “family members’ hobbies  
(sports , books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and solutions  (D3.6,V2.3, 
V2.4, V8.3, V15.1, LS2, LS5, CS2.7) .Students read the text very quickly to check that the main components 
correspond to the headings written by the teacher on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on 
the list  (already provided by the teacher) at their desks  (V3.4, LS7, CS2.8). The teacher could use different 
versions of the scanning activities as described in the “listening/watching- comprehension” section above. 
In this way, they can understand the text in general better with the help of scanning  (CS2.16.1).  They share 
the components with the whole class  (SELS2.1) and then they discuss the accuracy of the results as a whole 
class   (D2.3, D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.2, LS1, CS2.8). 
ENG7.4.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Students read the new text silently in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity 
as they have done in the vocabulary session earlier   (D3.2, SELS2.2,V4.1). During the reading session, they look 
out for new words whose meanings they do not know  (if there are any, other than the target words previously 
covered in the listening/watching-comprehension and vocabulary recognition sessions)  (CS2.6).  They work 
on the new words in the same way as in the vocabulary sessions. Then they deal with the semantic meaning 
conveyed in the text through display questions, then semi-closed activities and then open-ended activities   
(V3.3, V6.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.6). They deal with the meaning by using strategies from the closed to the open-
ended range to understand the theme “family life and home”  in terms of the sub-themes of “family members’ 
hobbies  (sports , books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems and solutions” mean 
from different perspectives to build their own understandings  (D3.6, D3.8, SELS3.1, CS2.13).  The teacher 
facilitates a number of activities to help the students improve their comprehension, synthesis and evaluation 
skills after applying the knowledge they have gained from the reading process  (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, CS2.3, 
CS2.17, CS2.20).  After this stage, they work on activities to connect their knowledge and skills they have 
acquired about the current content with CLIL  (history, maths, science, etc.) and cultural issues to be able 
to enrich their perspectives on the current  (D3.5, SELS3.2, V2.3, V2.4, V8.3, V15.1, LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.13, 
CS2.14 ).  In this way, they will have the opportunity to develop their knowledge and language competence 
through reading. They can have the opportunity to develop their cognitive, emotional, cultural, social, and 
creative skills through the process of reading  (SELS3.3, V7.2, CS2.20). 
ENG7.4.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING PROCESS: Students reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation 
to the whole reading-comprehension process  (SELS1.3).  They talk about them individually and then share 
them with the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1,V4.2, CS2.15). After the reflection and feedback 
session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas  (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, 
V4.3, V12.1, LS1). 
ENG7.4.W1.
PREPARATION FOR WRITING-EXPRESSION:  Students are facilitated throughout the theme with writing 
activities, from the first lesson to the last when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount of writing. At the beginning of the writing process, students recall their pre-existing 
knowledge about the current content to make a link between what they know and what they are going to 
write about  (D3.2, SELS1.1, CS2.12).  This includes examining all the audio/visual sources and elements 
provided for understanding the writing task  (V3.2,LS1, CS2.2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_815 =====
815
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.4.W2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL : Students listen  (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the writing task they have been given  (CS2.2).  These are limited and short pieces of writing to see how 
the language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the written language, 
after hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the  theme “family life and home”  . 
Initially, they practise the language in a more controlled way, writing to repeat or simply explain what they 
have heard and seen and/ or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they 
try to understand how the language is used in the target content by examining the model/example writing 
carefully  (V3.4, LS2, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the 
knowledge they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in 
relation to current content in their later free writing tasks  (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, LS1). 
ENG7.4.W3.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WRITTEN CONTENT: After working on a sample/model writing task, students begin 
to produce/construct similar tasks of their own. They participate in several writing activities individually, in 
pairs, in groups and as a whole class  (D2.3, SELS2.2,V4.1).  Their products could range from writing a word 
to a phrase, a clause to a full sentence, a group of sentences to a short paragraph, an essay to a short story. 
These writing activities will help students to produce and display meaningful written language for personal 
expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language expressions in 
this theme as in others  (SELS2.1, LS1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.4.W4.
PRACTISING BY PRODUCING WRITTEN CONTENT: Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
essays, diaries/journals, blogs, scripts for plays, documentaries, films, etc. to express their ideas, thoughts, 
and feelings in relation to the current topic  (D1.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.20).  They take part in 
individual or collaborative projects to improve their writing skills together with social, cultural, cognitive, and 
affective aspects  (D1.4, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2). Within this variety, they can find the opportunities to 
show how they can use the language that they have learnt to describe and comment on the current content 
for developing new ideas about them in different genres of writing, according to their potential needs for 
expressing themselves and communication with others  (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V2.3, V2.4, V8.3,V15.1, LS5, 
CS2.14, CS3.3) .  Storification and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further 
writing practice  (D2.5,LS9). 
ENG7.4.W5.
PROCESS WRITING: Controlled writing of words, sentences and paragraphs turns to process writing with 
the support of the teacher’s and also peers’ feedback in the theme. This process is expanded and supported 
with additional activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, etc. to practise further by 
writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, 
enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9,CS2.13, CS2.14).  A. All 
the content is formed as contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests, 
and language level. Students improve their writing after reviewing the feedback they receive and this spiral, 
cyclical, and ongoing work becomes a progressive path for students  (D3.1, SELS1.2, V12.3, LS1, CS3.1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_816 =====
816
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.4.W6.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students communicate their ideas, thoughts 
and feelings about the sub-themes of “family members’ hobbies  (sports , books, films, music, cooking); 
generation gap in the family: problems and solutions” through their writing tasks  (V2.3, V2.4, V8.3, V15.1, 
CS3.3). They can use AI-based technologies for various activities, by having access to authentic materials. 
They can also produce digital written materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways to 
interact and communicate with peers and/or other people inside and outside school by using the language 
including target words, language chunks, and the social language expressions for the relevant theme in their 
writing  (D3.3, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V11.1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). All writing activities can be evaluated as 
described in items  (3),  (4),  (5),  (9),  (10),  (11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of 
the English Curriculum.
ENG7.4.W7.
REFLECTING THROUGH WRITING:  The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and 
feelings in relation to the whole writing-expression process  (SELS1.3)  and students talk about them 
individually and share them with the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3,SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15).  After the reflection 
and feedback session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas  (SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1,LS1). 
SPEAKING-EXPRESSION
Practising through speaking from controlled to communicative stages: The teacher facilitates speaking 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the last. Speaking activities support students’ 
learning and help them to produce meaningful language for personal expression and communication with 
others, by using the language including the target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions of the theme.  (V3.4, V4.5, LS1, LS5). 
ENG7.4.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING : In the beginning, students recall their background knowledge about the 
theme through listening/watching and/or reading and then they talk about it  (SELS1.1, CS2.12).  Students 
practise the target language items in a controlled way, by saying, repeating, explaining what they hear and 
see in the context, for instance, in the introductory digital story and the listening and reading sections in 
different contexts  (SELS3.2).  Then they can expand their language use and practice in each section by 
increasing the amount of speaking they do  (D1.3, V3.4, LS1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.4.S2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL:  Students listen  (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the speaking task they have been given  (CS2.2).  These are limited and short pieces of speaking to see how 
the language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the spoken language, 
after hearing them through listening activities in the theme. Initially, they practise the language in a more 
controlled way, repeating some utterances, simply explaining what they have heard and seen, and/or 
what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to understand how the 
language is used in the target content by examining the speaking model/example carefully    (V2.3,V2.4, V8.3, 
V15.1, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge they 
have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to the 
current theme in their later free speaking tasks  (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, V3.4, LS5). 

===== PDF_PAGE_817 =====
817
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.4.S3.
PRODUCTION OF MEANINGFUL AND ACCURATE CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons, the teacher 
prepares new contexts for the students in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading the language 
including the target words and grammatical structures related to the  theme “family life and home”  in fun, 
enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS3.2, V7.2, LS9). These newly created contents are contextual, 
practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. They participate 
in such speaking activities individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class  (D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.20). 
ENG7.4.S4.
CONSTRUCTING MEANINGFUL SPOKEN CONTENT:  Students produce various spoken content and their 
products could range from producing a simple utterance including a word to a phrase, a clause to a full 
sentence, a group of sentences to a short speech, a dialogue to a spoken presentation  (SELS3.3, V3.4, 
CS2.20). These speaking activities will help students to produce accurate and meaningful spoken language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme “family life and home”   as in others  (D3.6, SELS2.1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.4.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Collaborative and communicative activities 
are designed and used to revise and consolidate the whole theme “family life and home”  on the sub-themes 
of “family members’ hobbies  (sports , books, films, music, cooking); generation gap in the family: problems 
and solutions”  (V4.5, LS5, CS2.13, CS2.14) . Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively 
and extensively used for further speaking practice throughout the theme  (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.1, V4.2, 
LS4, LS9). Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts 
such as dialogues, speeches, short texts, presentations, etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/
or other people inside and/or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
chunks, and social language expressions for the current theme  (SELS2.3, V3.4, V7.1, V7.2, LS1, CS2.20). 
AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. 
They can also produce digital materials and projects for speaking at school and at home through recordings  
(D3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V7.3, V11.1, LS2).  All these speaking activities can be evaluated as described in 
items  (1),  (2),  (3),  (4),  (5),  (7),  (8),  (9),  (10), and  (11) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
ENG7.4.S6.
REFLECTING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students are encouraged to reflect individually or collaboratively in 
groups on their own individual learning  (SELS1.3) or on their collaborative learning in pairs, groups or as a 
whole class collaboratively  (D2.3, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  The activities will help and support students in these 
feedback and reflection sessions. Their feedback is shared with peers and the teacher and takes the form 
of interactive and ongoing feedback that can help their own improvement  (SELS1.2, SELS2.1) and also they 
contribute to the improvement of their peers in their learning processes  (V4.1, V4.3,V12.1, V12.3, LS1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_818 =====
818
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To engage in creating stories about family members and their hobbies in English by using the 
target vocabulary and target grammatical items (Simple Past Tense-irregular verbs)
Activity: We had fun, didn’t we?
The teacher prepares hobby cards (e.g., cooking, watching, reading, fishing). She/He divides the class into 
groups of four/five and informs the students that they ’re going to create a story about a family sharing 
hobby during a weekend. Then she/he gives each group a hobby card and assigns family roles to the group 
members (e.g., a mother/father, a grandmother/grandfather, a son/daughter). Each group represents a 
family.  The teacher writes some questions on the board (Where was the family?, What did they do?, What 
went wrong?, What funny thing happened?) and asks the students to create their stories by answering those 
questions. Each student makes a sentence in turns. When each group finishes writing, they present the 
stories to the classmates. The rest of the groups give a ‘stars’ rating (1-5) for their peers’ performance and 
chooses the most creative story. The teacher provides constructive feedback on language use, grammar 
and presentation. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To engage in creating stories about family members and their hobbies in English by using the 
target vocabulary and target grammatical items  (Simple Past Tense-irregular verbs)
Activity: We had fun, didn’t we?
The teacher prepares hobby cards (e.g., cooking, watching, reading, fishing) and verb cards related to the 
hobby cards (e.g., bake, argue, teach, catch, cook). She/He divides the class into groups of four/five and 
informs the students that they ’re going to create a story about a family sharing hobby during a weekend. 
Then she/he gives each group a hobby card and the verb cards and assigns family roles to the group 
members (e.g., a mother/father, a grandmother/grandfather, a son/daughter). Each group represents a 
family.  The teacher writes some questions on the board (Where was the family?, What did they do?, What 
went wrong?, What funny thing happened?) and asks the students to create their stories by answering those 
questions. Each student makes a sentence in turns. When each group finishes writing, they present the 
stories to the classmates. The rest of the groups give a ‘stars’ rating (1-5) for their peers’ performance and 
choose the most creative story. The teacher provides constructive feedback on language use, grammar 
and presentation. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_819 =====
819
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 5: LIFE IN THE NEIGHBOURHOOD & CITY AND 
SOCIAL LIFE
Sub-themes: Public services in the neighbourhood and 
city; life in different kinds of cities
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in the neighbourhood and city and 
social life” and covers the sub-themes of “public services in the neighbourhood 
and city; life in different kinds of cities”. These components (sub-themes) are 
integrated into the learning process through the contextualised use of target 
vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and social language 
expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, 
collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ 
developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this 
theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed 
to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school 
environment.
CLASS HOURS 14 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.4. Self-Efficacy, D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.1. Empathy, 
D2.2. Responsibility, D2.3. Assertiveness,  D2.4. Trust, D2.5. Playfulness,  D3.1. 
Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.4. Seeking the Truth, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning, 
D3.9. Doubting, D3.10. Critical Perspective
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1 Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2 Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V17. Thriftiness, V20. 
Benevolence

===== PDF_PAGE_820 =====
820
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS8. Sustainability 
Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Visual Arts, Music, Physical Education and 
Sports, Technology and Design
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering 
Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, 
CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. 
Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation 
Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.18. Argumentation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing 
Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.2. Problem 
Solving Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_821 =====
821
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 7 is structured based on inductive approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.7.5.L1.  Students can prepare and get ready for listening (to)/watching about the current content on 
“life in the neighbourhood and city including social life with public services in the neighbourhood 
and city; life in different kinds of cities”.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience about the current theme and 
content to recall their background knowledge by investigating it carefully.
b) Students identify significant and necessary relationships and connections between their pre-
existing knowledge, their past experience and the clues to the current content by responding 
to meaningful questions about it (without speaking Turkish or using a translation).
c) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by using their pre-existing 
knowledge and past experience of the content.
d) Students make rational predictions about the current content by looking at the supplementary 
visual elements provided. 
ENG.7.5.L2. Students can bring together the information in the current content on “life in the neighbourhood 
and city including social life with public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different 
kinds of cities”.
a) Students identify the main topic of the current content in general by listening (to)/watching it 
as a whole in its context. 
b) Students recognise the significant details and basic components of the current content within 
the whole by listening (to) and watching the whole content carefully to notice them.
ENG.7.5.L3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “life in the 
neighbourhood and city including social life with public services in the neighbourhood and 
city; life in different kinds of cities”.
a) Students check their initial predictions about the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between their self-predictions and the clues provided as visuals surrounding 
the content.
b) Students make significant and necessary classifications in the current content that affect the 
meaning of the generally perceived content.
c) Students make significant and necessary comparisons in the generally perceived current 
content to highlight differences between two or more different things by using visuals, ensuring 
clarity and meaning.
d) Students recognise significant branching, linear or spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content.
e) Students make essential inferences and deductions to understand the meaning of the 
generally perceived current content better.
f) Students strongly recognise the holistic meaning formed by the components, comparisons, 
classifications, and details related to the current content.
g) Students construct a detailed understanding of the meaning of the current content through 
prior classifications, comparisons, and inferences/deductions.
h) Students position, internalise and personalise current content in an individualised, age-
appropriate and level-appropriate way.

===== PDF_PAGE_822 =====
822
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.7.5.L4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related 
to the listening (to)/watching process about the current content on “life in the neighbourhood 
and city including social life with public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different 
kinds of cities” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students individually convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings 
that are critically reviewed in relation to the current listening (to)/watching contents and the 
process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current listening (to)/watching content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce new audio/visual products individually by revising their personal work after 
participating in reflective activities related to the listening (to)/watching process of the current 
content.
ENG.7.5.P1.  Students can select and use target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases, clauses, and sentences in utterances authentically, naturally, 
and accurately in the current content about “life in the neighbourhood and city including social 
life with public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities” to develop 
holistic and conscious pronunciation skills after recognising them in context. 
a) Students recognise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases and sentences in utterances within the current content by 
listening (to)/ watching it, first as a whole and then with pauses.
b) Students repeat utterances, including target sentences, clauses, phrases, and words with 
target theme-specific sounds by considering phonological aspects such as pronunciation and 
intonation accurately and naturally in the content several times as a whole class and then in 
groups and individually.
c) Students talk about the current content by taking part in small group conversations by paying 
attention to select and use accurate phonological aspects such as pronunciation, intonation, 
stress, and other features as they are understood.
d) Students reflect personally on their pronunciation and other target phonological aspects such 
as intonation after recording and listening to group conversations about the target content.
e) Students evaluate feedback from others and their personal feedback and reflection by 
listening to or watching the audio/visual content again to check for accuracy.
f) Students utilise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of utterances including target sounds of the current content, appropriately, effectively, 
accurately, naturally, automatically, and consciously when communicating with others in 
different contexts.
ENG.7.5.R1.  Students can prepare for reading the content on “life in the neighbourhood and city including 
social life with public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities” 
efficiently and effectively.
a) Students recall and activate significant pre-existing knowledge and past experiences that can 
be related to the current theme and content through careful exploration. 
b) Students recognise significant relationships between pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to current content.
c) Students make strong preliminary predictions about the current content based on explored 
and recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring and examining the 
audio-visual clues in relation to it.

===== PDF_PAGE_823 =====
823
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.7.5.R2.  Students can bring information together about the current content on “life in the neighbourhood 
and city including social life with public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different 
kinds of cities” through skimming, scanning and detailed reading.
a) Students skim the current content by looking very quickly and carefully at the surrounding 
visual materials to identify its general focus.
b)  Students scan the current content by reading it silently and quickly to find key and major 
components.
c) Students read the current content again silently and carefully to examine any significant 
semantic and structural details.
d) Students examine the semantic details in the content carefully to check the accuracy of their 
initial predictions.
ENG.7.5.R3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “life in the 
neighbourhood and city including social life with public services in the neighbourhood and 
city; life in different kinds of cities”.
a) Students classify significant and necessary elements of the current content in a meaningful 
way.
b) Students compare significant and key elements of the current content with each other or with 
similar ones in a meaningful way.
c) Students recognise significant and basic spiral, causal, and logical relationships in the current 
content through careful examination and analysis.
d) Students make meaningful inferences from information in the current content by examining 
it critically.
e) Students internalise their meaningful inferences from information in the current content in an 
individualised way appropriate to their age and language level.
ENG.7.5.R4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to 
the reading process about the current content on “life in the neighbourhood and city including 
social life with public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities” in 
relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content 
and process with others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
ENG.7.5.V1.  Students can select and use target vocabulary efficiently, effectively, and accurately, based 
on the current content about “life in the neighbourhood and city including social life with public 
services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities” after recognising them 
in context and developing their conscious and inductive vocabulary learning skills.
a) Students make predictions about the main topic of the current content by identifying “general 
contextual clues” from the visual, audio, and written preparation materials provided during the 
“listening/watching for gist” and/or reading for “skimming” sessions.
b) Students check the accuracy of the predictions related to the “general contextual clue” by 
listening to, watching, and/or reading the audio, visual, and/or written content in context.
c) Students search the target audio/visual, and/or written content by scanning to find key 
components of the theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_824 =====
824
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students listen/watch the content carefully and/or read it silently to identify and underline/
circle target unknown words.
e) Students separate target (key-active) words from the other (non-key-passive) words in the 
target content.
f) Students examine relevant target words, phrases, and expressions in the current content to 
understand how and where they are used.
g)  Students determine paragraph context clues to identify the topics of the parts/paragraphs 
containing unknown target words.
h)  Students discuss the meaning of the target words by finding indirect sentence context clues 
in the assigned sentences of the parts/paragraphs of the content.
i)  Students determine the correct meanings of the target words in the current content in pairs 
or groups by comparing the meanings/definitions proposed.
j) Students confirm the accuracy of the meanings/definitions of the target words in  the current 
content by consulting with the teacher, the class and/or by using printed or digital dictionaries.
k)  Students make use of the target words of the current theme in a range of semantically 
associated contextual activities and tasks accurately, naturally, authentically, and 
appropriately.
l) Students make use of the target words of the current theme accurately, naturally, appropriately 
and effectively through careful selection when communicating with others.
ENG.7.5.G1.  Students can select and use target grammatical language items efficiently, effectively, and 
accurately, based on the current content about “life in the neighbourhood and city including 
social life with public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities”, 
after recognising them in context and developing their conscious and inductive grammaring 
skills through consciousness-raising and discovery.
a)  Students listen to, watch, and/or read the audio, visual, and written current content presented 
in context that introduces the general use of the target language structures in the current 
theme.
b) Students examine example sentences provided by the teacher or instructional materials 
including target grammatical items to see how the target grammatical structure(s) of the 
target theme is/are used to construct a meaning or contribute to meaning.
c) Students analyse current audio, visual, and/or written content presented in context to identify 
sentences similar to those provided as examples.
d) Students find the commonalities between the sentences identified and those exemplified by 
the teacher or materials through careful comparison in pairs and/or groups.
e) Students discover the characteristics of the commonalities in the sentences in the current 
content by discussing them in pairs or groups as an awareness/consciousness-raising activity.
f) Students formulate rule(s) about the same/target grammar structure(s) of the current theme 
based on their observations and discussions in pairs or groups.
g)  Students engage in contextual activities on the use of target grammatical structures 
(grammaring) of the current theme to explain and justify the grammar rule(s) they have 
discovered.
h)  Students practise to consolidate their understanding of the target grammar that they 
discovered by selecting accurate and meaningful items in meaningful and contextualised 
activities.
i) Students produce accurate and unique verbal or written content by using target grammar 
consciously and in a natural way, without thinking about the rules.

===== PDF_PAGE_825 =====
825
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
j) Students produce new spoken/written content by using the target grammatical structures 
efficiently, authentically, automatically, and naturally in context when communicating with 
others without thinking about rules.
ENG.7.5.W1.  Students can prepare for writing efficiently and accurately based on the current content 
about “life in the neighbourhood and city including social life with public services in the 
neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities”.
a) Students relate pre-existing knowledge and experiences from initial listening, watching, and 
reading processes to current content by examining and activating them.
b) Students understand what the current writing task requires in terms of content and purpose in 
relation to the current content accurately by applying pre-existing knowledge and experiences, 
following guided instructions.
ENG.7.5.W2.  Students can analyse and understand a provided model to guide them in producing similar 
writing tasks related to the content on “life in the neighbourhood and city including social life 
with public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities”.
a) Students grasp the significant and basic components of the content in the model/sample 
provided for the assigned writing task, including word selection and use, grammar selection 
and use, and other details such as type, style, and meaning as required.
ENG.7.5.W3.  Students can construct new written content on “life in the neighbourhood and city including 
social life with public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities” 
based on their understanding of the model(s) provided.
a) Students share their ideas and thoughts by brainstorming through collaborative discussion to 
generate ideas for the new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current 
theme.
b) Students plan how the knowledge and ideas generated during the brainstorming session can 
be applied to their new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current theme.
c) Students conduct preliminary research relevant to the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) 
writing task on the current content, considering the type of writing, age appropriateness, and 
language level.
d) Students produce a well-organised and detailed draft relevant to the (prepared and/or 
unprepared) type of writing and appropriate for the age and language level.
e) Students organise and develop contextual materials relevant to the type of the assigned task 
(prepared and/or unprepared) and appropriate to age and language level.
f) Students modify the content they produce for the assigned writing task in a coherent and 
meaningful way, consistent with the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) type of writing, 
and appropriate to the age and language level.
ENG.7.5.W4.  Students can practise producing written content based on the current theme “life in the 
neighbourhood and city including social life with public services in the neighbourhood and 
city; life in different kinds of cities”.
a) Students present relevant supportive materials appropriate to the assigned (prepared and/
or unprepared) writing task, considering the type of writing and appropriate to the age and 
language level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and strategies for the assigned (prepared 
and/or unprepared) writing task, considering its writing type and appropriate to their age and 
language level.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language structures accurately and appropriately 
in their writing tasks, by selecting necessary and appropriate ones in line with the assigned 
type of writing and appropriate to the age and language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_826 =====
826
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students express their messages about the current content clearly to the reader in the 
assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task.
ENG.7.5.W5.  Students can engage in the process of writing related to the content on “life in the 
neighbourhood and city including social life with public services in the neighbourhood and 
city; life in different kinds of cities”.
a) Students review the feedback from the teacher and/or peers critically on their prepared and/
or unprepared writing task(s).
b) Students revise to reorganise the written content of their prepared and/or unprepared task 
based on the feedback received from the teacher and/or peers.
c) Students refine and develop their written content produced for their prepared/unprepared 
writing task through the iterative feedback process.
ENG.7.5.W6.  Students can reconstruct their writing about the current theme on “life in the neighbourhood 
and city including social life with public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different 
kinds of cities” to communicate effectively about it.
a) Students adapt and use individually internalised information in current or similar content by 
selecting and reorganising it meaningfully in written form as necessary when communicating 
with other people in different contexts.
b) Students exchange information and ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge and content with others.
c) Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the writing 
process about the current content on “life in the neighbourhood and city including social life 
with public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities” in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
d) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings they review 
critically in relation to their current writing-expression content and process.
e) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current writing-expression content and 
process with others.
f) Students produce their new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current writing-expression content and process.
ENG.7.5.S1.  Students can prepare themselves to speak meaningfully, fluently, and efficiently about the 
current content on “life in the neighbourhood and city including social life with public services 
in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities”.
a) Students relate current content by analysing pre-existing knowledge and experiences from 
earlier listening, watching, and reading sessions to associate them with the current content.
ENG.7.5.S2.  Students can analyse and understand the model content related to “life in the neighbourhood 
and city including social life with public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different 
kinds of cities” to support the production of spoken language.
a) Students grasp what the provided model/example is about with the help of audio, visual, and/
or written elements after listening, watching, and/or reading the current content.
ENG.7.5.S3.  Students can produce meaningful and accurate spoken content related to the current 
theme on “life in the neighbourhood and city including social life with public services in the 
neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities”.
a) Students recognise which form and type of spoken content is expected and assigned based on 
the  model/example about the current theme for both prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations through careful examination.

===== PDF_PAGE_827 =====
827
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students conduct preliminary research on the expected and assigned content to be produced  
for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students develop a draft outline in accordance with the assigned prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations as presented in the model/example, appropriate to the age and language 
level based on the current theme.
d) Students organise supplementary audio-visual materials in accordance with the assigned 
task as presented in the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations 
and appropriate to their age and language level. 
e) Students organise information related to the current content to be presented, appropriate to 
the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
f) Students critically review their prepared presentation content for accuracy, coherence, and 
appropriateness to audience and context in prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.7.5.S4.  Students can construct meaningful spoken content about “life in the neighbourhood and city 
including social life with public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of 
cities” through efficient and meaningful practice.
a) Students make spoken content clear and understandable to listeners by selecting and using 
style and form appropriate to age and language level in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
b) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using materials appropriate to the 
context, age, language level, style, and type of discourse, similar to those presented in the 
model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using target vocabulary and language 
structures similar and/or appropriate to those presented in the model/example considering 
their age, language level, context, style, and type of discourse for prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations.
d) Students convey relevant explicit, implicit, and/or complex messages related to the current 
content clearly in context to the listeners by using appropriate material and body language in 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
e) Students convey their messages about the current content clearly to the listeners by 
incorporating all the necessary semantic elements in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
ENG.7.5.S5.  Students can reconstruct the information about “life in the neighbourhood and city including 
social life with public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities” 
when communicating with others.
a) Students use the same or similar information presented in the current content in verbal or 
written forms in different contexts by reorganising it meaningfully, accurately, effectively, 
efficiently, functionally, and individually as required.
b) Students engage in verbal and/or written communication by sharing the reconstructed 
meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.7.5.S6.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the speaking 
process about the current content on “life in the neighbourhood and city including social life 
with public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities” in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students reveal their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they review critically 
in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_828 =====
828
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students share their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
critically review in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process with 
others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_829 =====
829
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN THE NEIGHBOURHOOD & CITY AND SOCIAL LIFE
Sub-themes: Public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for public services in the neighbourhood and city: 
Nouns: An experience, an advertisement, a comment, a colleague, a bank, a department, a post (mail-AmE.), 
an ad, an advertisement, advertising, public, a promise, a store, a user. 
Verbs: To manage, to respond, to reply, to consider, to advertise, to post (to mail-AmE.), to promise, to wish.
Adjectives: Public, safe.
Adverbs: Inside.
Phrases: An emergency service, a community centre, a fire department, once upon a time,  social media 
account. 
Vocabulary for life in different kinds of cities: 
Nouns: A community, a creature, husbandry. 
Verbs:  To feed, to collect, to develop, to look after.
Adjectives: Downtown, simple, safe, lively, peaceful, historical, charming. 
Adverbs: Easily, free. 
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “ 29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Past Progressive Tense: (The street performers were entertaining a large crowd downtown).
-Question tags for the Past Progressive Tense: (People were chatting at the café about the new community 
center, weren’t they?). 
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Past Progressive Tense: Expressing actions that were ongoing at a specific time in the past or were 
interrupted by another action.
-Question tags for the Past Progressive Tense: Confirming information or asking for agreement about actions 
that were ongoing at a specific time in the past or were interrupted by another action.
Target Social Language in Use:
Our community is close-knit, everybody knows each other!
Our neighbourhood is family-friendly with parks and schools!
There are many well-maintained gardens in this area!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
f, g, h, i, j, k
Vowel: i: (/aı/, /ı/, /i:/)
Consonants:  f: (/f/);  g:(/g/, /dʒ/); h: (/h/); j (/dʒeɪ/, /dʒ/);  k: (/k/)
*(Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised.

===== PDF_PAGE_830 =====
830
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” and its components 
such as “public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities” is present in almost 
all languages. People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them 
and transfer it to their new language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know 
what “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” and its components such as “public services in the 
neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities” means but will not know how to say them in a foreign 
language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in 
their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more easily in a 
foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts:
Public services, neighbourhood, city, public services in the neighbourhood, public services in the city, 
different cities, life in the city,  life in different kinds of cities.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will prepare a short story titled “A Day in My Classroom and City” 
that reflects classroom life and connects it with public services in their neighbourhood or city, such as 
libraries, chemists, or hospitals, and highlights how these services support learning. They will also imagine 
their classroom in a smart city and describe how technology or innovative systems enhance their learning 
experience. Students will write their story by  using at least three paragraphs and include details about the 
characters, setting, and events. The assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, 
and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” and 
its components such as “public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities”. As 
they are lower secondary school students in year 7 (seven), they can know what “life in the neighbourhood 
and city and social life” and its components such as “public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in 
different kinds of cities” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people who start to learn 
a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and transfer it to their 
new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these things in a foreign language if 
this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own 
language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a foreign language, in this case 
English.
As they are students in year 7 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “life in 
the neighbourhood and city and social life” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous 
themes and/or years. These grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at 
the beginning of the year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical 
items in the current theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” and its components such as “public 
services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities”. Recalling and practising with relevant 
vocabulary and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as 
a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “life in the neighbourhood and city 
and social life”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary and grammatical items 
from the previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In 
this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are 

===== PDF_PAGE_831 =====
831
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
able to understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the 
current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge 
and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated 
by rubrics throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students are asked to recall the concept of “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” by remembering 
their pre-existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to 
make links with the current activities in the theme in English without saying anything in Turkish and without 
translating anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English. To 
remind them of their pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
many materials such as “a scene from a short film, a passage from a book, a part from a personal diary 
(journal),  a part of a story, a collection of pictures, a part of an animation, a poster, an excerpt from a video 
etc.” related to this content can be shared with the class before the main teaching/learning flow begins. 
The materials about the current concept would give a general idea of the theme. Students are work on the 
material according to the instructions and try to grasp it. The teacher tries to check if they have an idea 
about the topic of the new theme with several activities. When they have finished working on them, the 
teacher asks them in English if they have understood what has been in the material. She/He asks them to 
write a related words that they already know (learnt in previous years) in English on a piece of paper and put 
it in the jar/ box that she/he has prepared. Alternative ways for checking their comprehension could be tried 
by the teacher.
They wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the theme, the digital 
introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the  theme“life in the neighbourhood and city and social life”  in the classroom, 
to prepare the students emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-
up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning 
process in class for their well-being  (D1.5, V12.1, V13.4) . This could be an activity such as a short game, a 
physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue 
twister, listening to an anecdote, a very short story, watching a pantomime/online story, etc. that has no 
relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of the current theme in 
English  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.4, V7.2, V13.2, LS4) . That is only for relaxation and preparation for the 
lesson.
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills are used in an integrated way around a central  topic “life in the neighbourhood and city 
and social life”  and the sub-themes of “public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds 
of cities” , allowing students to build background knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to 
productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are 
integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive 
to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely linked way that means 
each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development and to increase communicative 
competence. The theme “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life”  is characterised by a balanced 
integration of all the skills, where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension and 
reading-comprehension) and respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with 
the help of their grammar, vocabulary and phonological selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_832 =====
832
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.5.L1.
PREPARATION FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students prepare to access the introduction to the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to remember what they have done during the “establishing links” 
session for recalling background knowledge about the related concept where they watched a short film 
scene prepared for that section  (which is not a part of the introductory digital story of the theme)  (D3.2, 
V3.4,LS1, LS2, LS4).  They remember what they already know about the content to prepare themselves to 
work on guessing the topic of the current theme  (V5.1,V16.2, V17.3, LS1, LS5, LS8). They prepare to access 
the main materials of the theme for having connections by making predictions based on the short film in the 
“establishing links” session  (D3.8, V3.3, LS1, LS4). 
ENG7.5. L2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER BY LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students collect “general context clues” to 
understand the whole content by looking at visual clues before listening  (to)/watching. The teacher asks the 
students to look at any visual material such as pictures, posters, and realia related to the current content to 
identify the topic of the content and to answer the question “What is the whole content about?”  (D3.6, V5.1, 
V16.2, V17.3, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.2) .They can realise that there might be different elements related to this 
concept  (D2.1, V4.5) . The teacher asks them to look at the visuals quickly to make predictions about the 
topic of the whole theme by using the “listening  (to)/watching for gist” strategy before listening/watching 
the main visual material of the theme, which is the introductory digital story  (D3.8, V4.5, LS1, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.11). The teacher asks the students to read the title of the theme and asks them to brainstorm by thinking 
about which words they already know and whichwords come to mind in connection with the title  (D3.4, LS2, 
CS2.12, CS2.16.2). She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new/target words they do not know 
at this stage of the lesson. She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity to guess the general 
topic/theme of the context by using the words they already know and that there will be time to work on the 
new words of the current content later  (D1.4, V12.2). At this stage, some guessing games can be played to 
guess the main topic of the current content/theme by using the clues from the additional visuals such as 
pictures, posters, etc. related to the content, prepared and produced by the teacher, by using web 2.0 tools  
(D2.5, D3.3,SELS2.1, V3.4, LS2, LS4, CS2.12). 
ENG7.5.L3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  Students identify and recognise the topic of the 
current theme by listening  (to)/watching the introductory digital story that provides a context for the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the introductory digital story to recognise the 
topic of the theme in general  (This is a kind of preparation to work on the target key vocabulary in the later 
stages of the lesson (s)  (D3.2, V3.4). The teacher asks the students to recall the work done with visuals  (the 
scene from a short film) in the “establishing links” session about the current context shown earlier during the 
listening  (to)/ watching session  (D3.2, LS2). Students watch the digital introductory story and consolidate 
the identification of the target theme as a whole  (CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that 
the students can hear/ see the context as a whole and understand the theme holistically   (D3.1, V5.1, V16.2, 
V17.3, LS2, LS4, LS5). 
MAKING MEANING THROUGH THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE THEME BY LISTENING/W ATCHINfG:  
Students find and identify the main components of the current content by listening  (to)/watching the 
context quickly through scanning. The teacher organises a scanning activity to find out the components as 
the basic and most important details of the current content through the introductory digital story to help 
students learn and know more about the current theme. She/He asks the students to listen and watch the 
story again without stopping, by scanning/looking for any relevant words or concepts that are heard in the 
story  (D3.6, V3.4, LS2, LS4, LS7). The teacher hands out a sheet to the students on which there is a list of 

===== PDF_PAGE_833 =====
833
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
words/phrases, etc. to tick, circle or underline. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard through 
watching the story very quickly without stopping. The teacher could apply different versions of scanning 
activities such as finding important elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which 
elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, LS1, CS2.4 ).  In this 
way, they will be able to understand the story in general through the main elements and components by 
eliminating the irrelevant ones. Students share with the whole class the words and components they have 
found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the teacher to them  (D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.4). Then they 
discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class  (SELS2.2, CS2.8).  This is evaluated as described in 
items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After having 
watched the introductory digital story, the teacher places five headings on the smart board/whiteboard/
blackboard which are on the target vocabulary list of the related theme as clues to the components of the 
current theme  (D3.7, V5.1, V16.2, V17.3, LS5, LS8) .She/He places a corresponding picture next to each 
component and writes the name of each heading. She/He guides students to understand the heading of each 
category with the help of pictures. The teacher asks the students to work with the words they already know 
during this phase of the lesson  (SELS1.2).  Students work on these categories with the help of the scenes 
from the introductory digital story  (D3.6, LS2, LS4) . The teacher reads the headings aloud a few times by 
pointing to the corresponding pictures on the board and the students repeat them. Then the students say 
the headings all together. For working on the sub-themes of “public services in the neighbourhood and city; 
life in different kinds of cities”further, the teacher asks volunteers to go to the board and choose the picture  
(already provided by the teacher) to stick/pin/ drag it on the white/black board or the smart board  (if the 
teacher asks)  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.2,V3.4, V20.4, LS2, LS4).  Then, they say the headings  (components) 
together as a whole class. In this way, the main components of the theme “life in the neighbourhood and 
city and social life”  are introduced to the students in English (LS5. At this stage, the meanings of the target 
words are not studied, but the categorisation of the basic components contributes to their recognition of 
the concept in general. The teacher could ask the students to decide which words in the introductory digital 
story they do not know and to note them while reading the text later in the reading session  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.8, 
SELS1.1, V3.4). This could be evaluated as described in items  (1),  (2),  (3),  (6)  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. All this work helps them understand the main 
categories through classifications and also the inferences they make while listening to and watching the 
introductory digital story and/or examining the picture related to the content. In this way, they recognise and 
comprehend the main concept as a whole through categorisation, comparison, and inference  (D3.6, D3.7, 
CS2.5, V3.3, LS2,LS4, LS7). 
 
ENG7.5.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS : Students check the accuracy of their prior 
guesses, reflect on their ideas and feelings about the listening/watching session, and give feedback to each 
other. After the students listen  (to)/watch the introductory digital story to find the main components of 
the theme, the teacher asks them whether their guesses they made during the “establishing links” session, 
looking at visuals session, and their first listening  (to)/watching session have been correct  (D3.8,V4.2, V4.3, 
LS2, LS4).  As they have already seen a scene from a short film created about the concept of the current 
theme, during the “establishing links” session earlier, and looked at some supplementary visuals  (pictures, 
the title of the theme) and also they saw the picture related to the introductory digital story they can easily 
answer what the current theme is about and that their guesses were correct  (D3.4, V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, 
CS2.8). The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
listening  (to)/watching process and students talk about them individually  (SELS1.3) and share them with 
the whole class  (D2.3, SELS.2.1, V4.2).  After the reflection and feedback session, they talk again about the 
components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their ideas  (SELS2.2, V4.2, V10.3). 

===== PDF_PAGE_834 =====
834
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.5.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Students recognise the pronunciation and other phonological 
aspects of target utterances, including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch an extract from the introductory digital story as 
the main context for noticing the target phonological elements  (LS1, LS2, LS4) .  She/He asks them to pay 
attention to the target pronunciation and/or other phonological aspects in the current content. The teacher 
asks them to notice how the target phonological aspects are used in context. Starting with the extract from 
the digital story, students go on with other contextual examples and activities to hear and understand the 
use of target elements in context  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION  (AND OTHER PHONOLOGICAL ASPECTS ): Students 
select and use accurate, natural, and authentic target pronunciation and other phonological aspects of the 
target utterances including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme “life in the 
neighbourhood and city and social life” . After recognition activities, students repeat the target utterances 
including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme aloud a few times as a whole 
class with accurate and natural pronunciation and other phonological aspects after listening  (to)/watching 
the recordings that the teacher has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes or some other 
AI-based technologies  (D3.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2). To help the students pronounce the target utterances 
including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds accurately, the teacher could offer variations 
with some techniques such as showing the target utterance to the students and they say it or letting them 
listen to the recording, then turning off the recording randomly and students say the utterances they hear 
from the recording  (D3.2, D3.7, D2.3).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as shadow 
reading, bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound exercises 
by getting help from AI technologies  (D2.5,SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). Along with the target 
utterances, the target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are also practised 
in the same ways. This is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) as described in the section1.2.Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7). 
FURTHER PRACTICE OF THE TARGET PRONUNCIATION : Students practise pronunciation with further 
activities for practice, consolidation, feedback and reflection. The teacher could use tape recording and 
feedback techniques. Students read aloud and record a text with the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the  current  theme   provided  by  the  teacher, at home  (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.3, SELS3.1, V4.1,V5.1, LS2, LS5) . They bring their recording (s) to school. First, they listen to the 
correct pronunciation of the text,provided by the teacher, in class. Then they listen to the recordings of 
individual students. During or after listening to the texts recorded by the students at home, the students give 
self-feedback or peer feedback on the pronunciation of the words in the recordings  (D2.4, D3.6, SELS1.3, 
SELS2.2, V4.1, V12.1, V14.1, L S1,LS5).  If available, a different version of the recording technique could be 
applied in the class. The teacher asks the students to discuss, say/talk about something, which they already 
know, related to the theme. Groups take turns to talk and the rest of the class listens  (D2.3, D2.4, SELS2.2).  
During this session, the teacher records their discussions. After each group’s performance, the class listens 
to the recording for pronunciation and everyone gives feedback on it, including the individual students who 
have spoken during the discussion  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS1). The teacher can get 
help from AI-based technologies for these activities if available. Students’ performances are evaluated as 
explained in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
pronunciation process and students talk about them individually  (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole 
class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS2,CS2.15) .  After the reflection and feedback 
session, they talk again about the components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their 
ideas  (SELS1.2, V3.3, V6.2,V10.3, LS1, LS2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_835 =====
835
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.5.V1
PREPARATION FOR THE WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To scan for finding the main components of 
the theme“life in the neighbourhood and city and social life”  ,  the teacher asks the students to listen to and 
watch the introductory digital story to remember the topic of content mentioned in the previous listening/
watching sessions. The teacher also asks them to check their predictions made in the first listening/
watching session at the beginning of the lessons on the current theme once more again  (D3.8, D3.2, D3.6, 
V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS7) . Then the teacher asks the students to read the relevant parts of the written 
version of the introductory digital story provided by the teacher by scanning  (reading very quickly) to check 
the main components and categories with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, 
illustrations with the headings that the teacher has previously written on the smart board/white board/
blackboard in relation to the main components of the theme “life in the neighbourhood and city and social 
life”   (D3.7, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.8). Students read the written extract from 
the story very quickly to check the main components corresponding to the headings that the teacher has 
written on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on the list  (already provided by the teacher) 
at their seats  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4) . The teacher could apply different versions of scanning activities such 
as finding important components, categories, and elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and 
finding which elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes  (LS1, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.8). In 
this way, they can understand the story in general better with the help of reading this time after the listening/
watching sessions held earlier through the main elements and components by eliminating the irrelevant 
ones  (D3.2,D3.6, D3.7, V3.4, LS1, LS2, CS2.16.1). Students share with the whole class the components they 
have found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the teacher to them  (D2.3, SELS2.1).  Then 
they discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class  (D2.4,D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, V16.3, 
LS1, CS2.8). 
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY  (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  To read for the details for finding 
the new target vocabulary the teacher asks the students to read the written version of the introductory 
digital story  (or another written text for working on the target vocabulary) in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity  
(D3.2, SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the story/text and the second peer reads the other half 
silently in a given time  (V3.4, V4.1, V9.2, LS1, CS2.6). The teacher asks them to look out for new words whose 
meanings they do not know during this silent and detailed reading and asks them to look out for new  (target) 
words they have previously noted during the listening/watching sessions  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.6, D3.8, V3.3, V16.1, 
LS7). They are then asked to share these words with their peers without discussing their meanings in the 
text  (D2.4, D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2,V6.2).  The teacher starts working on the new  (target) words here. In this 
way, they have a detailed reading, understand the story better, and find the new  (target) words that they do 
not know to work on.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To separate key  (active) and non-key  (passive) target vocabulary 
in context: To check whether the students know any of the target key vocabulary about the content, the 
teacher asks them to say the new words whose meaning they do not know and which they have noticed 
and noted during their silent jigsaw reading session and the students do that  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, D3.2, D3.8, 
V3.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). When they say the words, the teacher writes them on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard by putting them on two lists. She/He writes the key  (active) target words on one list and the 
non-key  (passive) target words on the other list  (that she/he has already decided on earlier when planning 
the lesson).  She/He quickly covers the non-key words with examples, pictures, question-answers, however, 
spends more time on the key target words as described below  (D3.2, D3.6, V1.2,V3.4, LS2, LS4). 
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY:  To find “part/paragraph context clues” in the parts/paragraphs 
of the story  (context): The teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again, paying 
attention to which part of the story the unknown words that they do not know are in the utterances  (D3.2, 
D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4). He wants to introduce the meanings of the target key  (active) vocabulary 

===== PDF_PAGE_836 =====
836
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
related to the theme that the students do not know part by part. Then she/he asks them to read the first 
part/paragraph in the written version of the story  (or similar text) where the unknown words  (active key 
target vocabulary) appear  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS5, LS7, CS2.8). Then she/he asks them whether they 
understand the meaning of the part/paragraph  (D3.8, SELS3.1).  She/He asks them to discuss the meaning 
of the part/paragraph in pairs in general without knowing the meaning of each new target word and asks 
what helps them understand the meaning of the part/paragraph   (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, LS1, LS7). Students 
discuss the meaning of the part/paragraph in pairs  (D3.10, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.18) and report back to the 
class. The teacher takes notes on the board and writes what the part/paragraph is about in one word/clause/
sentence in the story  (V6.2, LS1, LS5, CS2.16.1). As each part/ paragraph covers a different but related piece 
of the whole topic, they realise that each part/paragraph contains new target words about a specific part of 
the whole theme. This helps them think about what each new target word in each part/paragraph could be 
about  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, CS2.16.1).  These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (5),  (6),  
(7), and  (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To find “sentence clues”/“the indirect context clues” for the target 
key  (active) words in the sentences in context: The teacher helps the students deal with each target key 
word by looking around these words in the sentences for collecting clues which can help them understand 
the meaning of these unknown target words. Starting from the first unknown target  (key) word, students 
are asked to look at the words around the target  (key) words  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.8, D3.9, D3.10, SELS3.1, LS1, 
S2.1,CS2.16.3). These clues could be linking words, adjectives, adverbs, determiners, suffixes, prefixes, time 
expressions that can help them understand the meaning of the unknown target word  (but they do not talk 
about the terminology and parts of speeches, instead they talk about the meanings and functions of these 
supportive surrounding words).  The teacher asks students to work in pairs to go through and list the “indirect 
clues” for each word  (D3.5,D3.7, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, CS2.7, CS2.17). When they finish working in pairs, the 
teacher goes through each word with the whole class and listens to what clues they have found to understand 
the meaning of the unknown target  (key) word in the sentences  (SELS3.1,V4.1, LS7) . This is evaluated as 
described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION AND SELECTION OF TARGET VOCABULARY : To practise with the target words: To practise 
with the target vocabulary that the students work on through “sentence clues/indirect context clues”, the 
teacher checks their understanding again by showing them some realia that she/he has already provided  
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, LS5,CS2.5). The teacher shows them to the students and asks them to think about what 
they are and share them with their peers and then they check the answers with the whole class  (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.19). Then the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again and 
shows the corresponding pictures to the students when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
story, without stopping the video while they are watching the story  (LS2, LS4).  When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the realia/visual elements, etc. about the content and asks in the form of two 
options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that they already know  (D3.6, LS5, CS2.7, CS3.1). 
As they have studied the words through the “part/paragraph and sentences clues” in reading the text earlier, 
the students can choose the correct option when they hear the words for the related theme and they answer 
them after talking about them in pairs  (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, V6.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1). In this way they can 
further practise the meaning of the target words. These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  
(4),  (6),  (7),  (8) and  (9) in the section1.2 Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Further vocabulary practice through dialogical work: The 
teacher shows the story again, and from the beginning, whenever a target vocabulary item is mentioned 
in the story, the teacher stops the video and asks questions  (or lets the students ask and answer each 
other).  In this way, they are engaged in various dialogues and use the target words in these dialogues  (D2.3, 
D3.8, SELS2.1,V4.1, V6.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.8) . So, they revise and practise the meanings of the target  (key) 
vocabulary of the theme “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” . This kind of technique could be 

===== PDF_PAGE_837 =====
837
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
applied with different and enjoyable activities according to the preference of the teacher. These activities 
are conducted in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (2) and  (6) 
in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Further activities and games 
are played at this stage to reinforce the meaning of the target words by using several materials including 
AI-based and web 2.0  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4). They can be done with real pictures on the white/
blackboard if there is a problem with technology (LS4).  These activities are evaluated as described in items  
(3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8) and  (9) in the section in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Consolidation of the target vocabulary: To further practise 
the target vocabulary, the teacher can prepare an activity with images/pictures of target vocabulary using 
the web 2.0 tools. She/He mixes these images/pictures for the target vocabulary items and puts them in a 
raffle programme by using a web 2.0 tools or a real box in the classroom. She/He asks the students to take 
turns to go to the white/black board and to draw a picture related to the target components of the current 
theme  (D2.3, SELS1.2).  Then students say several things about the items in the picture  (D1.5, D2.3, V3.4, 
LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.20). The teacher asks the students in their seats to take notes while the student at the 
white/black board talks about the picture she/he has drawn and to give feedback by raising yes/no cards, or 
correcting if there are mistakes, etc., and also repeat the sentences after him/her  (D3.9, D3.10, SELS2.2, 
V3.4,CS3.3). When the student at the white/black board finishes, the teacher asks her/him to put the picture 
under the right category that she/he has previously placed on the white/black board earlier. In this way, 
images/pictures that are relevant to the concepts of the target theme will be revised and consolidated once 
again through categorisation  (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5).  The teacher asks the students to write a definition or 
an example sentence in their personal dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling and definitions  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V6.2,CS2.20). 
Students’ learning can be checked and evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8) and  (9) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. When the vocabulary session is 
over, the teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the process. 
Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the whole class  
(D1.2, D1.6, D2.1, SELS1.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  They also give feedback to each other  (D2.1, D2.4, 
V6.1, V9.2, V10.3). 
ENG7.5.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS  (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  Consciousness raising- 
discovery for the use of target language structures in inductive learning process: The teacher writes 
some sentences on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to read the sentences. Then 
she/he asks them to watch the introductory digital story again to draw their attention to the use of target 
grammatical structures of the  theme “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life”   (D3.2, LS7) . The 
introductory digital story is replayed so that the students can notice the use of language with the target 
grammar structures (LS2).  While watching the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes 
where the language with the target grammatical structures is used. When the students finish watching the 
introductory digital story again, the teacher asks the students to read and examine the example sentences 
carefully  (D3.2, D3.6, LS7, CS2.2, CS2.6, CS3.2). Then  she/he asks the students to work in pairs and find 
similar sentences with the target grammar structure (s) in the theme to those written by her/him on the 
smart board/blackboard/whiteboard  (SELS2.2, V 3 .4, CS2.7).  The students look at the written version of 
the story and find similar sentences to those given by the teacher as examples  (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.7).  
The teacher then asks the students to discuss and list the common features in these sentences and what 
kind of things are used repeatedly and why they think they are used in that way  (D3.1, D3.6, D3.10, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, V4.2, CS2.4, CS3.3). Students examine the teacher’s example sentences, find the similar sentences in 
the written version of the story and discuss them by making a list of similarities and repeated commonalities  
(D3.6, SELS3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.7). The teacher asks the pairs to say what they have 

===== PDF_PAGE_838 =====
838
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
found  (D2.3, CS2.10).  As the pairs say what they have found, the teacher writes them on the board and 
gives the class time to look at them and think about them  (D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.3, CS2.10, CS2.16.1, 
CS3.3). Then the teacher hands out a piece of paper and asks the students to make a rule about what they 
have noticed regarding the target structures. Students create a rule about the use of target grammatical 
structures of the theme by working in pairs and they read it to the class and give each other feedback on the 
rules  (D3.1, SELS2.2, SELS3.3, V3.3, LS1, CS2.9,CS2.16.1). The teacher shows a sentence that explains the 
rule correctly and asks the students to check if their rules are correct or the teacher gives a table in which 
the rule for the language with the target grammatical structure is incomplete. She/He asks the students 
to complete it by working in pairs  (D3.1, SELS2.2, V4.2) . Then they check the rule as the whole class and 
reflect on their experiences on how and how much they have learnt  (D2.4, SELS1.1, SELS1.3, V6.1, V10.3, 
LS1, CS2.15). This process is applied again for the other target grammatical structures in the theme if there 
are any. These activities are evaluated as described in items  (5),  (8) and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS IN CONTEXT:  Students practise the use of the 
language including the target grammatical structures: The teacher asks the students to work on grammar 
tasks she/he assigns  (D2.2, D2.3, V3.3, V3.4, CS2.13). These tasks could be the ones that the teacher 
provides. The teacher shows some other contents in the form of a dialogue, a short paragraph, a short story, 
etc. with sentences including the target grammar structures and asks the students to find the sentences 
with the target grammatical structures in them and asks if they understand them easily  (D3.2, D3.7, D3.10, 
CS2.13, CS2.20, CS3.3). She/He facilitates some oral or written activities and exercises for the students to 
further practise the target grammatical structures in context in pairs or groups  (SELS2.2).  She/He also 
facilitates more fun activities and games in which students talk, act out, mime, write, etc. with pen and 
paper, digital, AI-based, etc. materials and contexts so that they can practise and consolidate the target 
grammatical structures by selecting and using them accurately, efficiently, and naturally in context   (D2.5, 
D3.2, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, V4.4, LS2, CS2.13). They engage in several dialogic activities in which they share 
information, ideas and thoughts for communicating with their classmates. They exchange information and 
ideas to others by using target grammatical content  (D3.5, SELS2.2, V3.4) . When the session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the grammar discovery and 
use process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.3, V6.1, LS6,CS2.15). They also give feedback to each other  (D2.1, D2.4, 
V4.2, V10.3, SELS2.2). This is evaluated as described in items  (5),  (8) and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG7.5.R1
PREPARING FOR READING:  The teacher facilitates reading activities throughout the theme“life in the 
neighbourhood and city and social life”  from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with 
precise techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout 
the theme in various forms and amounts as it is explained above  (in the vocabulary section) in terms of how 
it is taught and when it needs to be clarified. Various reading styles such as silent reading, jigsaw reading and 
speed reading are used during the pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases. The ultimate aim of 
reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop critical thinking skills and the ability 
to comprehend and talk about the current content and related issues in a meaningful way  (V3.2, LS1, CS3.3). 
Students are provided a new text (s) to practise their reading skills through the current theme. They look at 
the surrounding visual materials, the title of the text and other supportive elements to guess the topic of the 
new reading content and they make predictions to be checked after reading the text  (D1.1, SELS3.1,V3.3, 
LS4, CS2.2, CS2.11, CS2.16.2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_839 =====
839
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.5.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING:  Students read the new reading text carefully 
to check their predictions made in the preparation session at the beginning of the lesson  (SELS1.2, V3.4, 
LS1, CS2.8).  Then they read the text very quickly  (scanning) to check the main components and categories 
with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations that are provided by the 
teacher  (V3.3,LS4, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.6).  They compare the components they have found in the text with 
those written by the teacher on the smart board/whiteboard related to the sub-themes of “public services in 
the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities”  (D3.6, V5.1, V16.2, V17.3, LS2, LS5, LS8, CS2.7) . 
Students read the text very quickly to check that the main components correspond to the headings written 
by the teacher on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on the list  (already provided by the 
teacher) at their desks  (V3.4, LS7, CS2.8). The teacher could use different versions of the scanning activities 
as described in the “listening/watching- comprehension” section above. In this way, they can understand the 
text in general better with the help of scanning  (CS2.16.1).  They share the components with the whole class  
(SELS2.1) and then they discuss the accuracy of the results as a whole class   (D2.3, D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.2, 
LS1, CS2.8). 
ENG7.5.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Students read the new text silently in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity 
as they have done in the vocabulary session earlier   (D3.2, SELS2.2,V4.1). During the reading session, they 
look out for new words whose meanings they do not know  (if there are any, other than the target words 
previously covered in the listening/watching-comprehension and vocabulary recognition sessions)  (CS2.6).  
They work on the new words in the same way as in the vocabulary sessions. Then they deal with the semantic 
meaning conveyed in the text through display questions, then semi-closed activities and then open-ended 
activities   (V3.3, V6.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.6). They deal with the meaning by using strategies from the closed 
to the open-ended range to understand the  t heme  “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” in 
terms of the sub-themes of “public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of cities”   
mean from different perspectives to build their own understandings  (D3.6, D3.8, SELS3.1, CS2.13).  The 
teacher facilitates a number of activities to help the students improve their comprehension, synthesis 
and evaluation skills after applying the knowledge they have gained from the reading process  (SELS3.2, 
SELS3.3, CS2.3, CS2.17, CS2.20).  After this stage, they work on activities to connect their knowledge and 
skills they have acquired about the current content with CLIL  (history, maths, science, etc.) and cultural 
issues to be able to enrich their perspectives on the current theme  (D3.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V5.1, V16.2, V17.3, 
LS1, LS5, LS6,CS2.13, CS2.14) . In this way, they will have the opportunity to develop their knowledge and 
language competence through reading. They can have the opportunity to develop their cognitive, emotional, 
cultural, social, and creative skills through the process of reading  (SELS3.3, V7.2, CS2.20). 
ENG7.5.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING PROCESS: Students reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation 
to the whole reading-comprehension process  (SELS1.3).  They talk about them individually and then share 
them with the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1,V4.2, CS2.15). After the reflection and feedback 
session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas  (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, 
V4.3, V12.1, LS1). 
ENG7.5.W1.
PREPARATION FOR WRITING-EXPRESSION:  Students are facilitated throughout the theme with writing 
activities, from the first lesson to the last when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount of writing. At the beginning of the writing process, students recall their pre-existing 

===== PDF_PAGE_840 =====
840
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
knowledge about the current content to make a link between what they know and what they are going to 
write about  (D3.2, SELS1.1, CS2.12).  This includes examining all the audio/visual sources and elements 
provided for understanding the writing task  (V3.2,LS1, CS2.2). 
ENG7.5.W2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL : Students listen  (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the writing task they have been given  (CS2.2).  These are limited and short pieces of writing to see how the 
language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the written language, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “life in the neighbourhood and 
city and social life”. Initially, they practise the language in a more controlled way, writing to repeat or simply 
explain what they have heard and seen and/ or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. 
At this stage, they try to understand how the language is used in the target content by examining the model/
example writing carefully  (V3.4, LS2, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they 
can convey the knowledge they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they 
have developed in relation to current content in their later free writing tasks  (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, LS1). 
ENG7.5.W3.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WRITTEN CONTENT: After working on a sample/model writing task, students begin 
to produce/construct similar tasks of their own. They participate in several writing activities individually, in 
pairs, in groups and as a whole class  (D2.3, SELS2.2,V4.1).  Their products could range from writing a word 
to a phrase, a clause to a full sentence, a group of sentences to a short paragraph, an essay to a short story. 
These writing activities will help students to produce and display meaningful written language for personal 
expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language expressions in 
this theme as in others  (SELS2.1, LS1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.5.W4.
PRACTISING BY PRODUCING WRITTEN CONTENT: Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
essays, diaries/journals, blogs, scripts for plays, documentaries, films, etc. to express their ideas, thoughts, 
and feelings in relation to the current topic  (D1.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.20).  They take part in 
individual or collaborative projects to improve their writing skills together with social, cultural, cognitive, and 
affective aspects  (D1.4, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2). Within this variety, they can find the opportunities to 
show how they can use the language that they have learnt to describe and comment on the current content 
for developing new ideas about them in different genres of writing, according to their potential needs for 
expressing themselves and communication with others  (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V5.1, V16.2, V17.3, LS5, LS8, 
CS2.14, CS3.3) . Storification and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further 
writing practice  (D2.5,LS9). 
ENG7.5.W5.
PROCESS WRITING: Controlled writing of words, sentences and paragraphs turns to process writing with 
the support of the teacher’s and also peers’ feedback in the theme. This process is expanded and supported 
with additional activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, etc. to practise further by 
writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, 
enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9,CS2.13, CS2.14).  A. All 
the content is formed as contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests, 

===== PDF_PAGE_841 =====
841
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
and language level. Students improve their writing after reviewing the feedback they receive and this spiral, 
cyclical, and ongoing work becomes a progressive path for students  (D3.1, SELS1.2, V12.3, LS1, CS3.1). 
ENG7.5.W6.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students communicate their ideas, thoughts 
and feelings about the sub-themes of “public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds 
of cities” through their writing tasks  (V5.1, V16.2, V17.3, CS3.3) . They can use AI-based technologies for 
various activities, by having access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital written materials 
and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways to interact and communicate with peers and/or other 
people inside and outside school by using the language including target words, language chunks, and the 
social language expressions for the relevant theme in their writing  (D3.3, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V11.1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.20). All writing activities can be evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (5),  (9),  (10),  (11) and  
(12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG7.5.W7.
REFLECTING THROUGH WRITING:  The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and 
feelings in relation to the whole writing-expression process  (SELS1.3)  and students talk about them 
individually and share them with the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3,SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15).  After the reflection 
and feedback session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas  (SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1,LS1). 
SPEAKING-EXPRESSION
Practising through speaking from controlled to communicative stages: The teacher facilitates speaking 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the last. Speaking activities support students’ 
learning and help them to produce meaningful language for personal expression and communication with 
others, by using the language including the target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions of the theme.  (V3.4, V4.5, LS1, LS5). 
ENG7.5.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING : In the beginning, students recall their background knowledge about the 
theme through listening/watching and/or reading and then they talk about it  (SELS1.1, CS2.12).  Students 
practise the target language items in a controlled way, by saying, repeating, explaining what they hear and 
see in the context, for instance, in the introductory digital story and the listening and reading sections in 
different contexts  (SELS3.2) .  Then they can expand their language use and practice in each section by 
increasing the amount of speaking they do  (D1.3, V3.4, LS1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.5.S2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL:  Students listen  (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the speaking task they have been given  (CS2.2).  These are limited and short pieces of speaking to see 
how the language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the spoken 
language, after hearing them through listening activities in the theme. Initially, they practise the language in 
a more controlled way, repeating some utterances, simply explaining what they have heard and seen, and/
or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to understand how 
the language is used in the target content by examining the speaking model/example carefully   (V3.3, V5.1, 
V16.2,V17.3, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge 

===== PDF_PAGE_842 =====
842
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to 
the current theme in their later free speaking tasks  (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, V3.4, LS5). 
ENG7.5.S3.
PRODUCTION OF MEANINGFUL AND ACCURATE CONTENT:  In the later stages of the lessons, the teacher 
prepares new contexts for the students in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading the language 
including the target words and grammatical structures related to the  theme “life in the neighbourhood 
and city and social life”  in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS3.2, V7.2, LS9). These newly 
created contents are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, 
and language level. They participate in such speaking activities individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole 
class  (D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.20). 
ENG7.5.S4.
CONSTRUCTING MEANINGFUL SPOKEN CONTENT:  Students produce various spoken content and their 
products could range from producing a simple utterance including a word to a phrase, a clause to a full 
sentence, a group of sentences to a short speech, a dialogue to a spoken presentation  (SELS3.3, V3.4, 
CS2.20). These speaking activities will help students to produce accurate and meaningful spoken language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this  theme “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life”  as in others  ( D3.6, SELS2.1, 
CS2.13). 
ENG7.5.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Collaborative and communicative activities 
are designed and used to revise and consolidate the whole  theme “life in the neighbourhood and city and 
social life”  on the sub-themes of “public services in the neighbourhood and city; life in different kinds of 
cities”  (V4.5, LS5, CS2.13, CS2.14) . Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further speaking practice throughout the theme  (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.1, V4.2, LS4, 
LS9). Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such 
as dialogues, speeches, short texts, presentations, etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people inside and/or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
chunks, and social language expressions for the current theme  (SELS2.3, V3.4, V7.1, V7.2, LS1, CS2.20). AI-
based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They 
can also produce digital materials and projects for speaking at school and at home through recordings  (D3.3, 
SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V7.3, V11.1, LS2).  All these speaking activities can be evaluated as described in items  (1),  
(2),  (3),  (4),  (5),  (7),  (8),  (9),  (10), and  (11) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.
ENG7.5.S6.
REFLECTING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students are encouraged to reflect individually or collaboratively in 
groups on their own individual learning  (SELS1.3) or on their collaborative learning in pairs, groups or as a 
whole class collaboratively  (D2.3, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  The activities will help and support students in these 
feedback and reflection sessions. Their feedback is shared with peers and the teacher and takes the form 
of interactive and ongoing feedback that can help their own improvement  (SELS1.2, SELS2.1) and also they 
contribute to the improvement of their peers in their learning processes  (V4.1, V4.3,V12.1, V12.3, LS1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_843 =====
843
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To practise actions on-going at a specific time in the past in English by using time travel scenarios.
Activity 1: Echoes of the Past
The teacher divides the class into pairs or small groups with 3-4 students. She/He starts the activity by 
engaging students in a brief discussion about time travel. She/He asks them to imagine they could travel 
to any time in the past. She/He provides visual aids (e.g., photos of the Conquest of Istanbul, the French 
Revolution, the moon landing, or medieval feasts) to help them better visualise the scenes. This can stimulate 
their imagination and make it easier for them to describe what they were seeing, hearing, and feeling. Then 
she/he gives pairs or small groups the following time travel prompts and asks them to choose a time travel 
location among the printed handouts. Possible time travel locations are as follows: “The year 1453-the 
conquest of Istanbul, The year 1969-watching the first moon landing, a medieval castle-experiencing a royal 
feast and celebration, a music concert in the 1970s-attending a live concert”. Students imagine that they 
are observing the events as they happen and write about what they were seeing, hearing, and experiencing 
at that moment. (e.g., “The people were cheering as the rocket launched”). She/He encourages them to use 
additional structures to connect actions that were happening simultaneously, for example: “While the rocket 
was launching, people were clapping and shouting”. Once the students have written their diary entries, 
the teacher allows them to share their entries in small groups and asks them to give feedback by asking 
questions to learn about their classmates’ experiences. The teacher highlights creative examples from the 
students’ work and praises their engagement to the activity. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings 
about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To practise actions on-going at a specific time in the past in English by using time travel scenarios.
Activity 1: Echoes of the Past
The teacher divides the class into pairs or small groups with 3-4 students. In this activity, students imagine 
they are time travellers who have just returned from a specific moment in history. Then she/he gives pairs 
or small groups the following time travel prompts and asks them to choose a time travel location among 
the printed handouts. Possible time travel locations are as follows: “The Conquest of İstanbul, the year 
1969-watching the first moon landing, a medieval castle-experiencing a royal feast and celebration, a music 
concert in the 1970s-attending a live concert”. The teacher provides a list of useful vocabulary related to 
each time travel scenario (e.g., for “Moon Landing”, words like “rocket, astronaut, cheering, space) to help 
students describe the scene and visual aids (e.g., photos of the moon landing, or medieval feasts) to help 
them better visualize the scenes. This can stimulate their imagination and make it easier for them to 
describe what they were seeing, hearing, and feeling. She/He breaks down the task into smaller and asks 
them to first describe what they saw (e.g., “The people were cheering”), then move on to describe the sounds 
they heard or actions they witnessed. Once the students have written their entries, the teacher allows them 
to share their entries in small groups and asks them to give feedback by asking questions to learn about 
their classmates’ experiences. The teacher highlights creative examples from the students’ work. Students 
reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_844 =====
844
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 6: LIFE IN THE WORLD & CULTURE
Sub-themes: Capitals, landmarks, famous places, and 
activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of 
the world
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in the world and culture” and 
covers the sub-themes of “capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in 
capitals; sports events in different parts of the world”. These components (sub-
themes) are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised 
use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and 
social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed 
to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within 
and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 14 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.4. Self-Efficacy, D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.1. Empathy, 
D2.2. Responsibility, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, D2.5. Playfulness,  D3.1. 
Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.4. Seeking the Truth, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning, 
D3.9. Doubting, D3.10. Critical Perspective
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill 
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V20. Benevolence

===== PDF_PAGE_845 =====
845
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Visual Arts, Music, Physical Education and 
Sports, Technology and Design
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information 
Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. 
Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based 
Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, 
CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.18. Argumentation Skill, CS2.19. 
Logical Auditing Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, 
CS3.2. Problem Solving Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_846 =====
846
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 7 is structured based on inductive approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.7.6.L1.  Students can prepare and get ready for listening (to)/watching about the current content on 
“life in the world and culture with capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; 
sports events in different parts of the world”.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience about the current theme and 
content to recall their background knowledge by investigating it carefully.
b) Students identify significant and necessary relationships and connections between their pre-
existing knowledge, their past experience and the clues to the current content by responding 
to meaningful questions about it (without speaking Turkish or using a translation).
c) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by using their pre-existing 
knowledge and past experience of the content.
d) Students make rational predictions about the current content by looking at the supplementary 
visual elements provided. 
ENG.7.6.L2.  Students can bring together the information in the current content on “life in the world and 
culture with capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in 
different parts of the world”.
a) Students identify the main topic of the current content in general by listening (to)/watching it 
as a whole in its context. 
b) Students recognise the significant details and basic components of the current content within 
the whole by listening (to) and watching the whole content carefully to notice them.
ENG.7.6.L3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “life in the world 
and culture with capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events 
in different parts of the world”.
a) Students check their initial predictions about the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between their self-predictions and the clues provided as visuals surrounding 
the content.
b) Students make significant and necessary classifications in the current content that affect the 
meaning of the generally perceived content.
c) Students make significant and necessary comparisons in the generally perceived current 
content to highlight differences between two or more different things by using visuals, ensuring 
clarity and meaning.
d) Students recognise significant branching, linear or spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content.
e) Students make essential inferences and deductions to understand the meaning of the 
generally perceived current content better.
f) Students strongly recognise the holistic meaning formed by the components, comparisons, 
classifications, and details related to the current content.
g) Students construct a detailed understanding of the meaning of the current content through 
prior classifications, comparisons, and inferences/deductions.
h) Students position, internalise and personalise current content in an individualised, age-
appropriate and level-appropriate way.

===== PDF_PAGE_847 =====
847
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.7.6.L4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to 
the listening (to)/watching process about the current content on “life in the world and culture 
with capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different 
parts of the world” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students individually convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings 
that are critically reviewed in relation to the current listening (to)/watching contents and the 
process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current listening (to)/watching content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce new audio/visual products individually by revising their personal work after 
participating in reflective activities related to the listening (to)/watching process of the current 
content.
ENG.7.6.P1.  Students can select and use target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases, clauses, and sentences in utterances authentically, 
naturally, and accurately in the current content about “life in the world and culture with 
capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts 
of the world” to develop holistic and conscious pronunciation skills after recognising them in 
context. 
a) Students recognise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases and sentences in utterances within the current content by 
listening (to)/ watching it, first as a whole and then with pauses.
b) Students repeat utterances, including target sentences, clauses, phrases, and words with 
target theme-specific sounds by considering phonological aspects such as pronunciation and 
intonation accurately and naturally in the content several times as a whole class and then in 
groups and individually.
c) Students talk about the current content by taking part in small group conversations by paying 
attention to select and use accurate phonological aspects such as pronunciation, intonation, 
stress, and other features as they are understood.
d) Students reflect personally on their pronunciation and other target phonological aspects such 
as intonation after recording and listening to group conversations about the target content.
e) Students evaluate feedback from others and their personal feedback and reflection by 
listening to or watching the audio/visual content again to check for accuracy.
f) Students utilise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of utterances including target sounds of the current content, appropriately, effectively, 
accurately, naturally, automatically, and consciously when communicating with others in 
different contexts.
ENG.7.6.R1.  Students can prepare for reading the content on “life in the world and culture with capitals, 
landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of the 
world” efficiently and effectively.
a) Students recall and activate significant pre-existing knowledge and past experiences that can 
be related to the current theme and content through careful exploration. 
b) Students recognise significant relationships between pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to current content.
c) Students make strong preliminary predictions about the current content based on explored 
and recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring and examining the 
audio-visual clues in relation to it.

===== PDF_PAGE_848 =====
848
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.7.6.R2.  Students can bring information together about the current content on “life in the world and 
culture with capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in 
different parts of the world” through skimming, scanning and detailed reading.
a) Students skim the current content by looking very quickly and carefully at the surrounding 
visual materials to identify its general focus.
b)  Students scan the current content by reading it silently and quickly to find key and major 
components.
c) Students read the current content again silently and carefully to examine any significant 
semantic and structural details.
d) Students examine the semantic details in the content carefully to check the accuracy of their 
initial predictions.
ENG.7.6.R3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “life in the world 
and culture with capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events 
in different parts of the world”.
a) Students classify significant and necessary elements of the current content in a meaningful 
way.
b) Students compare significant and key elements of the current content with each other or with 
similar ones in a meaningful way.
c) Students recognise significant and basic spiral, causal, and logical relationships in the current 
content through careful examination and analysis.
d) Students make meaningful inferences from information in the current content by examining 
it critically.
e) Students internalise their meaningful inferences from information in the current content in an 
individualised way appropriate to their age and language level.
ENG.7.6.R4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to 
the reading process about the current content on “life in the world and culture with capitals, 
landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of the 
world” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content 
and process with others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
ENG.7.6.V1.  Students can select and use target vocabulary efficiently, effectively, and accurately, based 
on the current content about “life in the world and culture with capitals, landmarks, famous 
places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of the world” after recognising 
them in context and developing their conscious and inductive vocabulary learning skills.
a) Students make predictions about the main topic of the current content by identifying “general 
contextual clues” from the visual, audio, and written preparation materials provided during the 
“listening/watching for gist” and/or reading for “skimming” sessions.
b) Students check the accuracy of the predictions related to the “general contextual clue” by 
listening to, watching, and/or reading the audio, visual, and/or written content in context.
c) Students search the target audio/visual, and/or written content by scanning the find key 
components of the theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_849 =====
849
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students listen/watch the content carefully and/or read it silently to identify and underline/
circle target unknown words.
e) Students separate target (key-active) words from the other (non-key-passive) words in the 
target content.
f) Students examine relevant target words, phrases, and expressions in the current content to 
understand how and where they are used.
g) Students determine paragraph context clues to identify the topics of the parts/paragraphs 
containing unknown target words.
h) Students discuss the meaning of the target words by finding indirect sentence context clues in 
the assigned sentences of the parts/paragraphs of the content.
i)  Students determine the correct meanings of the target words in the current content in pairs 
or groups by comparing the meanings/definitions proposed.
j) Students confirm the accuracy of the meanings/definitions of the target words in the current 
content by consulting with the teacher, the class and/or by using printed or digital dictionaries.
k) Students make use of the target words of the current theme in a range of semantically 
associated contextual activities and tasks accurately, naturally, authentically, and 
appropriately.
l) Students make use of the target words of the current theme accurately, naturally, appropriately 
and effectively through careful selection when communicating with others.
ENG.7.6.G1.  Students can select and use target grammatical language items efficiently, effectively, and 
accurately, based on the current content about “life in the world and culture with capitals, 
landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of 
the world” after recognising them in context and developing their conscious and inductive 
grammaring skills through consciousness-raising and discovery.
a) Students listen to, watch, and/or read the audio, visual, and written current content presented 
in context that introduces the general use of the target language structures in the current 
theme.
b) Students examine example sentences provided by the teacher or instructional materials 
including target grammatical items to see how the target grammatical structure(s) of the 
target theme is/are used to construct a meaning or contribute to meaning.
c) Students analyse current audio, visual, and/or written content presented in context to identify 
sentences similar to those provided as examples.
d) Students find the commonalities between the sentences identified and those exemplified by 
the teacher or materials through careful comparison in pairs and/or groups.
e) Students discover the characteristics of the commonalities in the sentences in the current 
content by discussing them in pairs or groups as an awareness/consciousness-raising activity.
f) Students formulate rule(s) about the same/target grammar structure(s) of the current theme 
based on their observations and discussions in pairs or groups.
g) Students engage in contextual activities on the use of target grammatical structures 
(grammaring) of the current theme to explain and justify the grammar rule(s) they have 
discovered.
h) Students practise to consolidate their understanding of the target grammar that they 
discovered by selecting accurate and meaningful items in meaningful and contextualised 
activities.
i) Students produce accurate and unique verbal or written content by using target grammar 
consciously and in a natural way, without thinking about the rules.

===== PDF_PAGE_850 =====
850
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
j) Students produce new spoken/written content by using the target grammatical structures 
efficiently, authentically, automatically, and naturally in context when communicating with 
others without thinking about rules.
ENG.7.6.W1.  Students can prepare for writing efficiently and accurately based on the current content 
about “life in the world and culture with capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in 
capitals; sports events in different parts of the world”.
a) Students relate pre-existing knowledge and experiences from initial listening, watching, and 
reading processes to current content by examining and activating them.
b) Students understand what the current writing task requires in terms of content and purpose in 
relation to the current content accurately by applying pre-existing knowledge and experiences, 
following guided instructions.
ENG.7.6.W2.  Students can analyse and understand a provided model to guide them in producing similar 
writing tasks related to the content on “life in the world and culture with capitals, landmarks, 
famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of the world”.
a) Students grasp the significant and basic components of the content in the model/sample 
provided for the assigned writing task, including word selection and use, grammar selection 
and use, and other details such as type, style, and meaning as required.
ENG.7.6.W3.  Students can construct new written content on “life in the world and culture with capitals, 
landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of the 
world” based on their understanding of the model(s) provided.
a) Students share their ideas and thoughts by brainstorming through collaborative discussion to 
generate ideas for the new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current 
theme.
b) Students plan how the knowledge and ideas generated during the brainstorming session can 
be applied to their new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current theme.
c) Students conduct preliminary research relevant to the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) 
writing task on the current content, considering the type of writing, age appropriateness, and 
language level.
d) Students produce a well-organised and detailed draft relevant to the (prepared and/or 
unprepared) type of writing and appropriate for the age and language level.
e) Students organise and develop contextual materials relevant to the type of the assigned task 
(prepared and/or unprepared) and appropriate to age and language level.
f) Students modify the content they produce for the assigned writing task in a coherent and 
meaningful way, consistent with the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) type of writing, 
and appropriate to the age and language level.
ENG.7.6.W4.  Students can practise producing written content based on the current theme “life in the world 
and culture with capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events 
in different parts of the world”.
a) Students present relevant supportive materials appropriate to the assigned (prepared and/
or unprepared) writing task, considering the type of writing and appropriate to the age and 
language level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and strategies for the assigned (prepared 
and/or unprepared) writing task, considering its writing type and appropriate to their age and 
language level.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language structures accurately and appropriately 
in their writing tasks, by selecting necessary and appropriate ones in line with the assigned 
type of writing and appropriate to the age and language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_851 =====
851
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students express their messages about the current content clearly to the reader in the 
assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task.
ENG.7.6.W5.  Students can engage in the process of writing related to the content on “life in the world and 
culture with capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in 
different parts of the world”.
a) Students review the feedback from the teacher and/or peers critically on their prepared and/
or unprepared writing task(s).
b) Students revise to reorganise the written content of their prepared and/or unprepared task 
based on the feedback received from the teacher and/or peers.
c) Students refine and develop their written content produced for their prepared/unprepared 
writing task through the iterative feedback process.
ENG.7.6.W6.  Students can reconstruct their writing about the current theme on “life in the world and 
culture with capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in 
different parts of the world” to communicate effectively about it.
a) Students adapt and use individually internalised information in current or similar content by 
selecting and reorganising it meaningfully in written form as necessary when communicating 
with other people in different contexts.
b) Students exchange information and ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge and content with others.
ENG.7.6.W7.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the writing 
process about the current content on “life in the world and culture with capitals, landmarks, 
famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of the world” in 
relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings they review 
critically in relation to their current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current writing-expression content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce their new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current writing-expression content and process.
ENG.7.6.S1.  Students can prepare themselves to speak meaningfully, fluently, and efficiently about the 
current content on “life in the world and culture with capitals, landmarks, famous places, and 
activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of the world”.
a) Students relate current content by analysing pre-existing knowledge and experiences from 
earlier listening, watching, and reading sessions to associate them with the current content.
ENG.7.6.S2.  Students can analyse and understand the model content related to “life in the world and 
culture with capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in 
different parts of the world” to support the production of spoken language.
a) Students grasp what the provided model/example is about with the help of audio, visual, and/
or written elements after listening, watching, and/or reading the current content.
ENG.7.6.S3.  Students can produce meaningful and accurate spoken content related to the current theme 
on “life in the world and culture with capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in 
capitals; sports events in different parts of the world”.
a) Students recognise which form and type of spoken content is expected and assigned based on 
the model/example about the current theme for both prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations through careful examination.

===== PDF_PAGE_852 =====
852
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students conduct preliminary research on the expected and assigned content to be produced 
for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students develop a draft outline in accordance with the assigned prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations as presented in the model/example, appropriate to the age and language 
level based on the current theme.
d) Students organise supplementary audio-visual materials in accordance with the assigned 
task as presented in the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations 
and appropriate to their age and language level. 
e) Students organise information related to the current content to be presented, appropriate to 
the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
f) Students critically review their prepared presentation content for accuracy, coherence, and 
appropriateness to audience and context in prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.7.6.S4.  Students can construct meaningful spoken content about “life in the world and culture with 
capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts 
of the world” through efficient and meaningful practice.
a) Students make spoken content clear and understandable to listeners by selecting and using 
style and form appropriate to age and language level in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
b) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using materials appropriate to the 
context, age, language level, style, and type of discourse, similar to those presented in the 
model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using target vocabulary and language 
structures similar and/or appropriate to those presented in the model/example considering 
their age, language level, context, style, and type of discourse for prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations.
d) Students convey relevant explicit, implicit, and/or complex messages related to the current 
content clearly in context to the listeners by using appropriate material and body language in 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
e) Students convey their messages about the current content clearly to the listeners by 
incorporating all the necessary semantic elements in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
ENG.7.6.S5.  Students can reconstruct the information about “life in the world and culture with capitals, 
landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of the 
world” when communicating with others.
a) Students use the same or similar information presented in the current content in verbal or 
written forms in different contexts by reorganising it meaningfully, accurately, effectively, 
efficiently, functionally, and individually as required.
b) Students engage in verbal and/or written communication by sharing the reconstructed 
meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.7.6.S6.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the 
speaking process about the current content on “life in the world and culture with capitals, 
landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of the 
world” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students reveal their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they review critically 
in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_853 =====
853
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students share their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
critically review in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process with 
others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_854 =====
854
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN THE WORLD & CULTURE
Sub-themes: Capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts 
of the world
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for capitals, landmarks, famous places and activities in capitals: 
Nouns: A crowd, an attraction, a palace, a square, a bridge, a castle, a tower, a site, a hall, a coast, an 
adventure. 
Verbs: To tour, to pack, to cycle, to experience.
Adjectives: Wide, wooden, bright, light, historic, active, ancient, hidden. 
Adverbs: Clearly, locally.
Phrases: To take a tour, to attend an event, to take a photograph.
Adverbs: Abroad, especially, aggressively.
Vocabulary for sports events in different parts of the world: 
Nouns: A tournament, an event, a runner, a run, running, a score, a seat, a medal, a track, a field, a pain, a 
movement, weight.
Verbs: To compete, to score, to attack, to support, to touch, to cheer.
Adjectives: First, second, third, exciting, global, international, likely.
Adverbs: Either.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “ 29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will be 
age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A table 
for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Present Perfect Tense with “for”: (People have celebrated cultural festivals for centuries).
-Question tags for The Present Perfect Tense: (They have preserved their heritage through traditional 
dances, haven’t they?)
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of The Present Perfect Tense with “for”: Expressing actions or states that began in the past and have 
continued up to the present for a specific duration.
-Use of question tags for The Present Perfect Tense: Confirming information, encouraging agreement, or 
seeking reassurance about actions or experiences that started in the past and continue into the present.
Target Social Language in Use:
Some souvenir shops are tourist traps in this city! 
The stadium is packed, everyone here is football mad! 
We’re taking in the sights of İstanbul this weekend!

===== PDF_PAGE_855 =====
855
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
l, m, n, (ng), o, p
Vowel: o: ( /əʊ/, /ɒ/, /əʊ/)
Consonants:  l: ( /ɛl/ /l/); m (/ɛm/,/m/);   n: (/ɛn/, /n/); p: (/piː//p/)
*(Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme).
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “life in the world and culture” and its components such as “capitals, 
landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of the world” is present 
in almost all languages. People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with 
them and transfer it to their new language learning. For instance, a lower secondary school student will 
know what “life in the world and culture” and its components such as “capitals, landmarks, famous places, 
and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of the world” means but will not know how to say 
them in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing 
knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more 
easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts
Capitals, landmarks, famous places; capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports 
events, sport events in different parts of the world.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT:  Students will prepare a puzzle or crossword about capitals, landmarks, 
famous places, and sports events in different parts of the world. First, they will choose target vocabulary 
about the given topics. Then they will create a puzzle or crossword. They may use Web 2.0 tools. The puzzles 
or crosswords may include visuals, photos or drawings. Finally, they will bring their crosswords or puzzles to 
the classroom and solve them in groups. The assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating 
scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “life in the world and culture” and its components such as 
“capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of the world”. 
As they are lower secondary school students in year 7 (seven), they can know what “life in the world and 
culture” and its components such as “capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports 
events in different parts of the world” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people who 
start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and 
transfer it to their new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these things in 
a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing 
knowledge in their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a 
foreign language, in this case, English.
As they are students in year 7 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “life 
in the world and culture” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or 
years. These grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning 
of the year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the 
current theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about the “life in the world and culture” and its components such as “capitals, landmarks, famous 

===== PDF_PAGE_856 =====
856
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of the world”. Recalling and practising with 
relevant vocabulary and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would 
be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “life in the world 
and culture”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary and grammatical items 
from the themes in previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, 
their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to 
understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the current 
theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to 
facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by 
rubrics throughout these practices).
Establishing Links
Students are asked to recall the concept of “life in the world and culture” by remembering their pre-existing 
background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with 
the current activities in the theme in English without saying anything in Turkish and without translating 
anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English. To remind them 
of their pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, many materials 
such as “a scene from a short film, a passage from a book, a part from a personal diary (journal),  a part of a 
story, a collection of pictures, a part of an animation, a poster, an excerpt from a video etc.” related to this 
content can be shared with the class before the main teaching/learning flow begins. The materials about 
the current concept would give a general idea of the theme. Students are work on the material according to 
the instructions and try to grasp it. The teacher tries to check if they have an idea about the topic of the new 
theme with several activities. When they have finished working on them, the teacher asks them in English 
if they have understood what has been in the material. She/He asks them to write a related words that they 
already know (learnt in previous years) in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/ box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways for checking their comprehension could be tried by the teacher.
They wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the theme, the digital 
introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme “life in the world and culture”  in the classroom, to prepare the students 
emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as 
an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their 
well-being  (D1.5, V12.1, V13.4). This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/
singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote, 
a very short story, watching a pantomime/online story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current 
theme and does not require any knowledge of the current theme in English  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.4, V7.2, 
V13.2, LS4). That is only for relaxation and preparation for the lesson.
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills are used in an integrated way around a central  topic “life in the world and culture” and the 
sub-themes of “capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts 
of the world”, allowing students to build background knowledge through receptive skills before moving on 
to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are 
integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive 
to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely linked way that means 
each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development and to increase communicative 
competence. The theme“life in the world and culture”  is characterised by a balanced integration of all the 
skills, where students engage with input  (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) 
and respond through output  (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their grammar, 
vocabulary and phonological selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_857 =====
857
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.6.L1.
PREPARATION FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students prepare to access the introduction to the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to remember what they have done during the “establishing links” 
session for recalling background knowledge about the related concept where they watched a short film 
scene prepared for that section  (which is not a part of the introductory digital story of the theme)  (D3.2, 
V3.4,LS1, LS2, LS4).  They remember what they already know about the content to prepare themselves to 
work on guessing the topic of the current theme  (V4.5, V5.1, V14.3, LS1, LS5) . They prepare to access the 
main materials of the theme for having connections by making predictions based on the short film in the 
“establishing links” session  (D3.8, V3.3, LS1, LS4). 
ENG7.6. L2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER BY LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students collect “general context clues” to 
understand the whole content by looking at visual clues before listening  (to)/watching. The teacher asks the 
students to look at any visual material such as pictures, posters, and realia related to the current content 
to identify the topic of the content and to answer the question “What is the whole content about?”  (D3.6, 
V4.5, V5.1, V14.3, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.2) .They can realise that there might be different elements related to 
this concept  (D2.1, V4.5) . The teacher asks them to look at the visuals quickly to make predictions about 
the topic of the whole theme by using the “listening  (to)/watching for gist” strategy before listening/watching 
the main visual material of the theme, which is the introductory digital story  (D3.8, V4.5, LS1, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.11). The teacher asks the students to read the title of the theme and asks them to brainstorm by thinking 
about which words they already know and whichwords come to mind in connection with the title  (D3.4, LS2, 
CS2.12, CS2.16.2). She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new/target words they do not know 
at this stage of the lesson. She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity to guess the general 
topic/theme of the context by using the words they already know and that there will be time to work on the 
new words of the current content later  (D1.4, V12.2). At this stage, some guessing games can be played to 
guess the main topic of the current content/theme by using the clues from the additional visuals such as 
pictures, posters, etc. related to the content, prepared and produced by the teacher, by using web 2.0 tools  
(D2.5, D3.3,SELS2.1, V3.4, LS2, LS4, CS2.12). 
ENG7.6.L3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  Students identify and recognise the topic of the 
current theme by listening  (to)/watching the introductory digital story that provides a context for the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the introductory digital story to recognise the 
topic of the theme in general  (This is a kind of preparation to work on the target key vocabulary in the later 
stages of the lesson (s)  (D3.2, V3.4). The teacher asks the students to recall the work done with visuals  (the 
scene from a short film) in the “establishing links” session about the current context shown earlier during the 
listening  (to)/ watching session  (D3.2, LS2). Students watch the digital introductory story and consolidate 
the identification of the target theme as a whole  (CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that 
the students can hear/ see the context as a whole and understand the theme holistically.   (D3.1, V4.5, V5.1, 
V14.3, LS2, LS4, LS5). 
MAKING MEANING THROUGH THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE THEME BY LISTENING/W ATCHINfG:  
Students find and identify the main components of the current content by listening  (to)/watching the 
context quickly through scanning. The teacher organises a scanning activity to find out the components as 
the basic and most important details of the current content through the introductory digital story to help 
students learn and know more about the current theme. She/He asks the students to listen and watch the 
story again without stopping, by scanning/looking for any relevant words or concepts that are heard in the 
story  (D3.6, V3.4, LS2, LS4, LS7). The teacher hands out a sheet to the students on which there is a list of 

===== PDF_PAGE_858 =====
858
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
words/phrases, etc. to tick, circle or underline. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard through 
watching the story very quickly without stopping. The teacher could apply different versions of scanning 
activities such as finding important elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which 
elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, LS1, CS2.4) .  In this 
way, they will be able to understand the story in general through the main elements and components by 
eliminating the irrelevant ones. Students share with the whole class the words and components they have 
found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the teacher to them  (D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.4). Then they 
discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class   (SELS2.2, CS2.8).  This is evaluated as described in 
items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After having 
watched the introductory digital story, the teacher places five headings on the smart board/whiteboard/
blackboard which are on the target vocabulary list of the related theme as clues to the components of the 
current theme  (D3.7, V4.5, V5.1, V14.3, LS5).She/He places a corresponding picture next to each component 
and writes the name of each heading. She/He guides students to understand the heading of each category 
with the help of pictures. The teacher asks the students to work with the words they already know during 
this phase of the lesson  (SELS1.2).  Students work on these categories with the help of the scenes from the 
introductory digital story  (D3.6, LS2, LS4). The teacher reads the headings aloud a few times by pointing to 
the corresponding pictures on the board and the students repeat them. Then the students say the headings 
all together. For working on the sub-themes of “capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; 
sports events in different parts of the world” further, the teacher asks volunteers to go to the board and 
choose the picture  (already provided by the teacher) to stick/pin/ drag it on the white/black board or the 
smart board  (if the teacher asks)  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.2,V3.4, V20.4, LS2, LS4).  Then, they say the 
headings  (components) together as a whole class. In this way, the main components of the theme“life in the 
world and culture”  are introduced to the students in English (LS5. At this stage, the meanings of the target 
words are not studied, but the categorisation of the basic components contributes to their recognition of 
the concept in general. The teacher could ask the students to decide which words in the introductory digital 
story they do not know and to note them while reading the text later in the reading session  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.8, 
SELS1.1, V3.4). This could be evaluated as described in items  (1),  (2),  (3),  (6)  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. All this work helps them understand the main 
categories through classifications and also the inferences they make while listening to and watching the 
introductory digital story and/or examining the picture related to the content. In this way, they recognise and 
comprehend the main concept as a whole through categorisation, comparison, and inference   (D3.6, D3.7, 
CS2.5). 
ENG7.6.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS : Students check the accuracy of their prior 
guesses, reflect on their ideas and feelings about the listening/watching session, and give feedback to each 
other. After the students listen  (to)/watch the introductory digital story to find the main components of 
the theme, the teacher asks them whether their guesses they made during the “establishing links” session, 
looking at visuals session, and their first listening  (to)/watching session have been correct  (D3.8,V4.2, V4.3, 
LS2, LS4).  As they have already seen a scene from a short film created about the concept of the current 
theme, during the “establishing links” session earlier, and looked at some supplementary visuals  (pictures, 
the title of the theme) and also they saw the picture related to the introductory digital story they can easily 
answer what the current theme is about and that their guesses were correct  (D3.4, V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, 
CS2.8). The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
listening  (to)/watching process and students talk about them individually  (SELS1.3) and share them with 
the whole class  (D2.3, SELS.2.1, V4.2).  After the reflection and feedback session, they talk again about the 
components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their ideas  (SELS2.2, V4.2, V10.3). 

===== PDF_PAGE_859 =====
859
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.6.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Students recognise the pronunciation and other phonological 
aspects of target utterances, including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch an extract from the introductory digital story as 
the main context for noticing the target phonological elements  (LS1, LS2, LS4) .  She/He asks them to pay 
attention to the target pronunciation and/or other phonological aspects in the current content. The teacher 
asks them to notice how the target phonological aspects are used in context. Starting with the extract from 
the digital story, students go on with other contextual examples and activities to hear and understand the 
use of target elements in context  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION  (AND OTHER PHONOLOGICAL ASPECTS ): Students 
select and use accurate, natural, and authentic target pronunciation and other phonological aspects of the 
target utterances including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme “life in the 
world and culture”. After recognition activities, students repeat the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme aloud a few times as a whole class with accurate 
and natural pronunciation and other phonological aspects after listening  (to)/watching the recordings that 
the teacher has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes or some other AI-based technologies  
(D3.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2). To help the students pronounce the target utterances including sentences, clauses, 
phrases, words, and sounds accurately, the teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as 
showing the target utterance to the students and they say it or letting them listen to the recording, then 
turning off the recording randomly and students say the utterances they hear from the recording  (D3.2, 
D3.7, D2.3).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one 
out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound exercises by getting help from 
AI technologies  (D2.5,SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). Along with the target utterances, the target 
sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are also practised in the same ways. This 
is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) as described in the section1.2.Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7). 
FURTHER PRACTICE OF THE TARGET PRONUNCIATION : Students practise pronunciation with further 
activities for practice, consolidation, feedback and reflection. The teacher could use tape recording and 
feedback techniques. Students read aloud and record a text with the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the  current  theme   provided  by  the  teacher, at home  (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.3, SELS3.1, V4.1,V5.1, LS2, LS5) . They bring their recording (s) to school. First, they listen to the 
correct pronunciation of the text,provided by the teacher, in class. Then they listen to the recordings of 
individual students. During or after listening to the texts recorded by the students at home, the students give 
self-feedback or peer feedback on the pronunciation of the words in the recordings  (D2.4, D3.6, SELS1.3, 
SELS2.2, V4.1, V12.1, V14.1, LS1,LS5) .  If available, a different version of the recording technique could be 
applied in the class. The teacher asks the students to discuss, say/talk about something, which they already 
know, related to the theme. Groups take turns to talk and the rest of the class listens  (D2.3, D2.4, SELS2.2).  
During this session, the teacher records their discussions. After each group’s performance, the class listens 
to the recording for pronunciation and everyone gives feedback on it, including the individual students who 
have spoken during the discussion  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS1). The teacher can get 
help from AI-based technologies for these activities if available. Students’ performances are evaluated as 
explained in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
pronunciation process and students talk about them individually  (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole 
class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS2,CS2.15) .  After the reflection and feedback 
session, they talk again about the components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their 
ideas  (SELS1.2, V3.3, V6.2,V10.3, LS1, LS2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_860 =====
860
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.6.V1
PREPARATION FOR THE WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To scan for finding the main components 
of the theme “life in the world and culture”,  the teacher asks the students to listen to and watch the 
introductory digital story to remember the topic of content mentioned in the previous listening/watching 
sessions. The teacher also asks them to check their predictions made in the first listening/watching session 
at the beginning of the lessons on the current theme once more again  (D3.8, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, 
LS7). Then the teacher asks the students to read the relevant parts of the written version of the introductory 
digital story provided by the teacher by scanning  (reading very quickly) to check the main components 
and categories with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations with the 
headings that the teacher has previously written on the smart board/white board/blackboard in relation to 
the main components of the theme “life in the world and culture”   (D3.7, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.4, CS2.8). Students read the written extract from the story very quickly to check the main components 
corresponding to the headings that the teacher has written on the board and then they tick/circle/underline 
them on the list  (already provided by the teacher) at their seats  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4). The teacher could apply 
different versions of scanning activities such as finding important components, categories, and elements on 
a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever 
she/he likes  (LS1, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.8). In this way, they can understand the story in general better with the 
help of reading this time after the listening/watching sessions held earlier through the main elements and 
components by eliminating the irrelevant ones  (D3.2,D3.6, D3.7, V3.4, LS1, LS2, CS2.16.1). Students share 
with the whole class the components they have found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the 
teacher to them  (D2.3, SELS2.1).  Then they discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class  (D2.4,D3.6, 
D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, V16.3, LS1, CS2.8). 
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY  (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  To read for the details for finding 
the new target vocabulary the teacher asks the students to read the written version of the introductory 
digital story  (or another written text for working on the target vocabulary) in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity  
(D3.2, SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the story/text and the second peer reads the other half 
silently in a given time  (V3.4, V4.1, V9.2, LS1, CS2.6). The teacher asks them to look out for new words whose 
meanings they do not know during this silent and detailed reading and asks them to look out for new  (target) 
words they have previously noted during the listening/watching sessions  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.6, D3.8, V3.3, V16.1, 
LS7). They are then asked to share these words with their peers without discussing their meanings in the 
text  (D2.4, D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2,V6.2).  The teacher starts working on the new  (target) words here. In this 
way, they have a detailed reading, understand the story better, and find the new  (target) words that they do 
not know to work on.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To separate key  (active) and non-key  (passive) target vocabulary 
in context: To check whether the students know any of the target key vocabulary about the content, the 
teacher asks them to say the new words whose meaning they do not know and which they have noticed 
and noted during their silent jigsaw reading session and the students do that  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, D3.2, D3.8, 
V3.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). When they say the words, the teacher writes them on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard by putting them on two lists. She/He writes the key  (active) target words on one list and the 
non-key  (passive) target words on the other list  (that she/he has already decided on earlier when planning 
the lesson).  She/He quickly covers the non-key words with examples, pictures, question-answers, however, 
spends more time on the key target words as described below  (D3.2, D3.6, V1.2,V3.4, LS2, LS4). 
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY:  To find “part/paragraph context clues” in the parts/paragraphs 
of the story  (context): The teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again, paying 
attention to which part of the story the unknown words that they do not know are in the utterances  (D3.2, 
D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4). He wants to introduce the meanings of the target key  (active) vocabulary 
related to the theme that the students do not know part by part. Then she/he asks them to read the first 

===== PDF_PAGE_861 =====
861
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
part/paragraph in the written version of the story  (or similar text) where the unknown words  (active key 
target vocabulary) appear  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS5, LS7, CS2.8). Then she/he asks them whether they 
understand the meaning of the part/paragraph  (D3.8, SELS3.1).  She/He asks them to discuss the meaning 
of the part/paragraph in pairs in general without knowing the meaning of each new target word and asks 
what helps them understand the meaning of the part/paragraph   (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, LS1, LS7). Students 
discuss the meaning of the part/paragraph in pairs  (D3.10, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.18) and report back to the 
class. The teacher takes notes on the board and writes what the part/paragraph is about in one word/clause/
sentence in the story  (V6.2, LS1, LS5, CS2.16.1). As each part/ paragraph covers a different but related piece 
of the whole topic, they realise that each part/paragraph contains new target words about a specific part of 
the whole theme. This helps them think about what each new target word in each part/paragraph could be 
about  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, CS2.16.1).  These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (5),  (6),  
(7), and  (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To find “sentence clues”/“the indirect context clues” for the target 
key  (active) words in the sentences in context: The teacher helps the students deal with each target key 
word by looking around these words in the sentences for collecting clues which can help them understand 
the meaning of these unknown target words. Starting from the first unknown target  (key) word, students 
are asked to look at the words around the target  (key) words  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.8, D3.9, D3.10, SELS3.1, LS1, 
S2.1,CS2.16.3). These clues could be linking words, adjectives, adverbs, determiners, suffixes, prefixes, 
time expressions that can help them understand the meaning of the unknown target word  (but they do not 
talk about the terminology and parts of speeches, instead they talk about the meanings and functions of 
these supportive surrounding words).  The teacher asks students to work in pairs to go through and list the 
“indirect clues” for each word  (D3.5,D3.7, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, CS2.7, CS2.17). When they finish working in 
pairs, the teacher goes through each word with the whole class and listens to what clues they have found 
to understand the meaning of the unknown target  (key) word in the sentences  (SELS3.1,V4.1, LS7). This is 
evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION AND SELECTION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To practise with the target words: To practise 
with the target vocabulary that the students work on through “sentence clues/indirect context clues”, the 
teacher checks their understanding again by showing them some realia that she/he has already provided  
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, LS5,CS2.5). The teacher shows them to the students and asks them to think about what 
they are and share them with their peers and then they check the answers with the whole class  (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.19). Then the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again and 
shows the corresponding pictures to the students when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
story, without stopping the video while they are watching the story  (LS2, LS4).  When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the realia/visual elements, etc. about the content and asks in the form of two 
options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that they already know  (D3.6, LS5, CS2.7, CS3.1). 
As they have studied the words through the “part/paragraph and sentences clues” in reading the text earlier, 
the students can choose the correct option when they hear the words for the related theme and they answer 
them after talking about them in pairs  (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, V6.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1). In this way they can 
further practise the meaning of the target words. These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  
(4),  (6),  (7),  (8) and  (9) in the section1.2 Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Further vocabulary practice through dialogical work: The 
teacher shows the story again, and from the beginning, whenever a target vocabulary item is mentioned 
in the story, the teacher stops the video and asks questions  (or lets the students ask and answer each 
other).  In this way, they are engaged in various dialogues and use the target words in these dialogues  (D2.3, 
D3.8, SELS2.1,V4.1, V6.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.8) . So, they revise and practise the meanings of the target  (key) 
vocabulary of the theme “life in the world and culture”. This kind of technique could be applied with different 
and enjoyable activities according to the preference of the teacher. These activities are conducted in the 

===== PDF_PAGE_862 =====
862
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (2) and  (6) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Further activities and games are played at this 
stage to reinforce the meaning of the target words by using several materials including AI-based and web 2.0  
(D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4). They can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a 
problem with technology (LS4). These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8) and  
(9) in the section in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Consolidation of the target vocabulary: To further practise 
the target vocabulary, the teacher can prepare an activity with images/pictures of target vocabulary using 
the web 2.0 tools. She/He mixes these images/pictures for the target vocabulary items and puts them in 
a raffle programme by using a web 2.0 tools or a real box in the classroom. She/He asks the students to 
take turns to go to the white/black board and to draw a picture related to the target components of the 
current theme  (D2.3, SELS1.2).  Then students say several things about the items in the picture  (D1.5, 
D2.3, V3.4, LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.20). The teacher asks the students in their seats to take notes while the 
student at the white/black board talks about the picture she/he has drawn and to give feedback by raising 
yes/no cards, or correcting if there are mistakes, etc., and also repeat the sentences after him/her  (D3.9, 
D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4,CS3.3). When the student at the white/black board finishes, the teacher asks her/
him to put the picture under the right category that she/he has previously placed on the white/black board 
earlier. In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the concepts of the target  theme will be revised 
and consolidated once again through categorisation  (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5).  The teacher asks the students to 
write a definition or an example sentence in their personal dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their 
dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling and definitions  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, 
V6.2,CS2.20). Students’ learning can be checked and evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8) 
and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. When the vocabulary 
session is over, the teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the 
process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.1, SELS1.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  They also give feedback to each other  
(D2.1, D2.4, V6.1, V9.2, V10.3). 
ENG7.6.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS  (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  Consciousness raising- 
discovery for the use of target language structures in inductive learning process: The teacher writes 
some sentences on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to read the sentences. Then 
she/he asks them to watch the introductory digital story again to draw their attention to the use of target 
grammatical structures of the  theme  “life in the world and culture”  (D3.2, LS7) . The introductory digital 
story is replayed so that the students can notice the use of language with the target grammar structures  
(LS2).  While watching the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the language 
with the target grammatical structures is used. When the students finish watching the introductory digital 
story again, the teacher asks the students to read and examine the example sentences carefully  (D3.2, D3.6, 
LS7, CS2.2, CS2.6, CS3.2). Then  she/he asks the students to work in pairs and find similar sentences with 
the target grammar structure (s) in the theme to those written by her/him on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard  (SELS2.2, V 3 .4, CS2.7).  The students look at the written version of the story and find similar 
sentences to those given by the teacher as examples  (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.7).  The teacher then asks 
the students to discuss and list the common features in these sentences and what kind of things are used 
repeatedly and why they think they are used in that way  (D3.1, D3.6, D3.10, SELS3.1, V3.3, V4.2, CS2.4, 
CS3.3). Students examine the teacher’s example sentences, find the similar sentences in the written version 
of the story and discuss them by making a list of similarities and repeated commonalities  (D3.6, SELS3.2, 
V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.7). The teacher asks the pairs to say what they have found  (D2.3, CS2.10).  
As the pairs say what they have found, the teacher writes them on the board and gives the class time to 
look at them and think about them  (D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.3, CS2.10, CS2.16.1, CS3.3). Then the teacher 

===== PDF_PAGE_863 =====
863
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
hands out a piece of paper and asks the students to make a rule about what they have noticed regarding 
the target structures. Students create a rule about the use of target grammatical structures of the theme 
by working in pairs and they read it to the class and give each other feedback on the rules  (D3.1, SELS2.2, 
SELS3.3, V3.3, LS1, CS2.9,CS2.16.1). The teacher shows a sentence that explains the rule correctly and asks 
the students to check if their rules are correct or the teacher gives a table in which the rule for the language 
with the target grammatical structure is incomplete. She/He asks the students to complete it by working in 
pairs  (D3.1, SELS2.2, V4.2) . Then they check the rule as the whole class and reflect on their experiences 
on how and how much they have learnt  (D2.4, SELS1.1, SELS1.3, V6.1, V10.3, LS1, CS2.15). This process is 
applied again for the other target grammatical structures in the theme if there are any. These activities are 
evaluated as described in items  (5),  (8) and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS IN CONTEXT:  Students practise the use of the 
language including the target grammatical structures: The teacher asks the students to work on grammar 
tasks she/he assigns  (D2.2, D2.3, V3.3, V3.4, CS2.13). These tasks could be the ones that the teacher 
provides. The teacher shows some other contents in the form of a dialogue, a short paragraph, a short story, 
etc. with sentences including the target grammar structures and asks the students to find the sentences 
with the target grammatical structures in them and asks if they understand them easily  (D3.2, D3.7, D3.10, 
CS2.13, CS2.20, CS3.3). She/He facilitates some oral or written activities and exercises for the students to 
further practise the target grammatical structures in context in pairs or groups  (SELS2.2).  She/He also 
facilitates more fun activities and games in which students talk, act out, mime, write, etc. with pen and 
paper, digital, AI-based, etc. materials and contexts so that they can practise and consolidate the target 
grammatical structures by selecting and using them accurately, efficiently, and naturally in context   (D2.5, 
D3.2, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, V4.4, LS2, CS2.13). They engage in several dialogic activities in which they share 
information, ideas and thoughts for communicating with their classmates. They exchange information and 
ideas to others by using target grammatical content  (D3.5, SELS2.2, V3.4) . When the session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the grammar discovery and 
use process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.3, V6.1, LS6,CS2.15). They also give feedback to each other  (D2.1, D2.4, 
V4.2, V10.3, SELS2.2). This is evaluated as described in items  (5),  (8) and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG7.6.R1
PREPARING FOR READING: The teacher facilitates reading activities throughout the theme  “life in the world 
and culture” from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the theme in various forms 
and amounts as it is explained above  (in the vocabulary section) in terms of how it is taught and when it 
needs to be clarified. Various reading styles such as silent reading, jigsaw reading and speed reading are 
used during the pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases. The ultimate aim of reading practice 
is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend 
and talk about the current content and related issues in a meaningful way  (V3.2, LS1, CS3.3). Students are 
provided a new text (s) to practise their reading skills through the current theme. They look at the surrounding 
visual materials, the title of the text and other supportive elements to guess the topic of the new reading 
content and they make predictions to be checked after reading the text  (D1.1, SELS3.1,V3.3, LS4, CS2.2, 
CS2.11, CS2.16.2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_864 =====
864
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.6.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: Students read the new reading text carefully to 
check their predictions made in the preparation session at the beginning of the lesson  (SELS1.2, V3.4, LS1, 
CS2.8).  Then they read the text very quickly  (scanning) to check the main components and categories with 
the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations that are provided by the teacher  
(V3.3,LS4, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.6).  They compare the components they have found in the text with those written 
by the teacher on the smart board/whiteboard related to the sub-themes of “capitals, landmarks, famous 
places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of the world”   (D3.6, V4.5,V5.1, V14.3, LS2, 
LS5, CS2.7).  Students read the text very quickly to check that the main components correspond to the 
headings written by the teacher on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on the list  (already 
provided by the teacher) at their desks  (V3.4, LS7, CS2.8). The teacher could use different versions of the 
scanning activities as described in the “listening/watching- comprehension” section above. In this way, they 
can understand the text in general better with the help of scanning  (CS2.16.1).  They share the components 
with the whole class  (SELS2.1) and then they discuss the accuracy of the results as a whole class   (D2.3, 
D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.2, LS1, CS2.8). 
ENG7.6.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Students read the new text silently in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity 
as they have done in the vocabulary session earlier   (D3.2, SELS2.2,V4.1). During the reading session, they 
look out for new words whose meanings they do not know  (if there are any, other than the target words 
previously covered in the listening/watching-comprehension and vocabulary recognition sessions)  (CS2.6).  
They work on the new words in the same way as in the vocabulary sessions. Then they deal with the semantic 
meaning conveyed in the text through display questions, then semi-closed activities and then open-ended 
activities   (V3.3, V6.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.6). They deal with the meaning by using strategies from the closed 
to the open-ended range to understand the theme “life in the world and culture”  in terms of the sub-themes 
of “capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of the 
world”mean from different perspectives to build their own understandings  (D3.6, D3.8, SELS3.1, CS2.13).  
The teacher facilitates a number of activities to help the students improve their comprehension, synthesis 
and evaluation skills after applying the knowledge they have gained from the reading process  (SELS3.2, 
SELS3.3, CS2.3, CS2.17, CS2.20).  After this stage, they work on activities to connect their knowledge and 
skills they have acquired about the current content with CLIL  (history, maths, science, etc.) and cultural 
issues to be able to enrich their perspectives on the current theme  (D3.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.5, V5.1, V14.3, 
LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.13, CS2.14) .   In this way, they will have the opportunity to develop their knowledge and 
language competence through reading. They can have the opportunity to develop their cognitive, emotional, 
cultural, social, and creative skills through the process of reading  (SELS3.3, V7.2, CS2.20). 
ENG7.6.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING PROCESS: Students reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation 
to the whole reading-comprehension process  (SELS1.3).  They talk about them individually and then share 
them with the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1,V4.2, CS2.15). After the reflection and feedback 
session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas  (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, 
V4.3, V12.1, LS1). 
ENG7.6.W1.
PREPARATION FOR WRITING-EXPRESSION:  Students are facilitated throughout the theme with writing 
activities, from the first lesson to the last when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount of writing. At the beginning of the writing process, students recall their pre-existing 
knowledge about the current content to make a link between what they know and what they are going to 

===== PDF_PAGE_865 =====
865
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
write about  (D3.2, SELS1.1, CS2.12).  This includes examining all the audio/visual sources and elements 
provided for understanding the writing task  (V3.2,LS1, CS2.2). 
ENG7.6.W2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL : Students listen  (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the writing task they have been given  (CS2.2).  These are limited and short pieces of writing to see how the 
language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the written language, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the  theme “life in the world and culture”. 
Initially, they practise the language in a more controlled way, writing to repeat or simply explain what they 
have heard and seen and/ or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they 
try to understand how the language is used in the target content by examining the model/example writing 
carefully  (V3.4, LS2, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the 
knowledge they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in 
relation to current content in their later free writing tasks  (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, LS1). 
ENG7.6.W3.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WRITTEN CONTENT: After working on a sample/model writing task, students begin 
to produce/construct similar tasks of their own. They participate in several writing activities individually, in 
pairs, in groups and as a whole class  (D2.3, SELS2.2,V4.1).  Their products could range from writing a word 
to a phrase, a clause to a full sentence, a group of sentences to a short paragraph, an essay to a short story. 
These writing activities will help students to produce and display meaningful written language for personal 
expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language expressions in 
this theme as in others  (SELS2.1, LS1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.6.W4.
PRACTISING BY PRODUCING WRITTEN CONTENT: Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
essays, diaries/journals, blogs, scripts for plays, documentaries, films, etc. to express their ideas, thoughts, 
and feelings in relation to the current topic  (D1.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.20).  They take part in 
individual or collaborative projects to improve their writing skills together with social, cultural, cognitive, and 
affective aspects  (D1.4, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2). Within this variety, they can find the opportunities to 
show how they can use the language that they have learnt to describe and comment on the current content 
for developing new ideas about them in different genres of writing, according to their potential needs for 
expressing themselves and communication with others  (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V4.5, V5.1, V14.3,LS5, CS2.14, 
CS3.3). Storification and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further writing 
practice  (D2.5,LS9). 
ENG7.6.W5.
PROCESS WRITING: Controlled writing of words, sentences and paragraphs turns to process writing with 
the support of the teacher’s and also peers’ feedback in the theme. This process is expanded and supported 
with additional activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, etc. to practise further by 
writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, 
enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9,CS2.13, CS2.14).  A. All 
the content is formed as contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests, 
and language level. Students improve their writing after reviewing the feedback they receive and this spiral, 
cyclical, and ongoing work becomes a progressive path for students  (D3.1, SELS1.2, V12.3, LS1, CS3.1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_866 =====
866
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.6.W6.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students communicate their ideas, thoughts 
and feelings about the the sub-themes of “capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; 
sports events in different parts of the world” through their writing tasks  (V1.2,V3.4, V14.1, V14.3, CS3.3). 
They can use AI-based technologies for various activities, by having access to authentic materials. They 
can also produce digital written materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways to interact 
and communicate with peers and/or other people inside and outside school by using the language including 
target words, language chunks, and the social language expressions for the relevant theme in their writing  
(D3.3, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V11.1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). All writing activities can be evaluated as described 
in items  (3),  (4),  (5),  (9),  (10),  (11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.
ENG7.6.W7.
REFLECTING THROUGH WRITING:  The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and 
feelings in relation to the whole writing-expression process  (SELS1.3)  and students talk about them 
individually and share them with the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3,SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15).  After the reflection 
and feedback session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas  (SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1,LS1). 
SPEAKING-EXPRESSION
Practising through speaking from controlled to communicative stages: The teacher facilitates speaking 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the last. Speaking activities support students’ 
learning and help them to produce meaningful language for personal expression and communication with 
others, by using the language including the target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions of the theme.  (V3.4, V4.5, LS1, LS5). 
ENG7.6.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING : In the beginning, students recall their background knowledge about the 
theme through listening/watching and/or reading and then they talk about it  (SELS1.1, CS2.12).  Students 
practise the target language items in a controlled way, by saying, repeating, explaining what they hear and 
see in the context, for instance, in the introductory digital story and the listening and reading sections in 
different contexts  (SELS3.2).  Then they can expand their language use and practice in each section by 
increasing the amount of speaking they do  (D1.3, V3.4, LS1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.6.S2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL:  Students listen  (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the speaking task they have been given  (CS2.2).  These are limited and short pieces of speaking to see how 
the language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the spoken language, 
after hearing them through listening activities in the theme. Initially, they practise the language in a more 
controlled way, repeating some utterances, simply explaining what they have heard and seen, and/or 
what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to understand how the 
language is used in the target content by examining the speaking model/example carefully  (V3.3,V4.5, V5.1, 
V14.3, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2).  They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge they 
have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to the 
current theme in their later free speaking tasks  (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, V3.4, LS5). 

===== PDF_PAGE_867 =====
867
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.6.S3.
PRODUCTION OF MEANINGFUL AND ACCURATE CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons, the teacher 
prepares new contexts for the students in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading the language 
including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme “life in the world and culture”  
in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS3.2, V7.2, LS9) . These newly created contents are 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. 
They participate in such speaking activities individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class  (D3.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.20). 
ENG7.6.S4.
CONSTRUCTING MEANINGFUL SPOKEN CONTENT:  Students produce various spoken content and their 
products could range from producing a simple utterance including a word to a phrase, a clause to a full 
sentence, a group of sentences to a short speech, a dialogue to a spoken presentation  (SELS3.3, V3.4, 
CS2.20). These speaking activities will help students to produce accurate and meaningful spoken language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme “life in the world and culture”  as in others  (D3.6, SELS2.1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.6.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Collaborative and communicative activities 
are designed and used to revise and consolidate the whole theme “life in the world and culture”  on the sub-
themes of “capitals, landmarks, famous places, and activities in capitals; sports events in different parts of 
the world”  (V4.5, LS5, CS2.13, CS2.14) . Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further speaking practice throughout the theme  (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.1, V4.2, LS4, 
LS9). Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such 
as dialogues, speeches, short texts, presentations, etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people inside and/or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
chunks, and social language expressions for the current theme  (SELS2.3, V3.4, V7.1, V7.2, LS1, CS2.20). 
AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. 
They can also produce digital materials and projects for speaking at school and at home through recordings  
(D3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V7.3, V11.1, LS2).  All these speaking activities can be evaluated as described in 
items  (1),  (2),  (3),  (4),  (5),  (7),  (8),  (9),  (10), and  (11) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
ENG7.6.S6.
REFLECTING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students are encouraged to reflect individually or collaboratively in 
groups on their own individual learning  (SELS1.3) or on their collaborative learning in pairs, groups or as a 
whole class collaboratively  (D2.3, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  The activities will help and support students in these 
feedback and reflection sessions. Their feedback is shared with peers and the teacher and takes the form 
of interactive and ongoing feedback that can help their own improvement  (SELS1.2, SELS2.1) and also they 
contribute to the improvement of their peers in their learning processes  (V4.1, V4.3,V12.1, V12.3, LS1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_868 =====
868
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To practise talking about adventures by considering actions beginning in the past and having 
continued up to the present for specific duration in English through engaging students in a series of 
adventurous scenarios.
Activity 1:The Amazing Adventure
The teacher divides the class into pairs or small groups to share their experiences and explore what they have 
or haven’t done in the context of a series of adventurous scenarios. The teacher presents a simple “adventure 
map” with different locations and activities. She/He draws it on the board or hands out a printed version. 
Each location represents an activity or experience that students can talk about using the target language. 
Examples of adventure map locations and activities: The Jungle, The Desert, The Mountain, The Beach, The 
Space Station, or The City.  Each group chooses one location from the adventure map and works together to 
share their experiences. Example questions: “What have you seen in the jungle?”, “What have you eaten in the 
jungle?” or “What have you done in the jungle?” They take turns asking and answering questions about what 
they have or haven’t done at that location. After completing the conversation in groups, each group presents 
their answers to the class. The storyteller in each group shares what their group has discovered about the 
adventure location. To conclude the activity, she/he asks the students to share one thing they have never 
done but would like to try in the future. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To practise actions beginning in the past and having continued up to the present for specific 
duration in English by engaging students in a series of adventurous scenarios.
Activity 1:The Amazing Adventure
The teacher divides the class into pairs or small groups to share their experiences and explore what they 
have or haven’t done in the context of a series of adventurous scenarios. The teacher presents a simple 
“adventure map” with different locations and activities. She/He draws it on the board or hands out a printed 
version Each location represents an activity or experience that students can talk about using the target 
language. Examples of adventure map locations and activities: The Jungle, The Desert, The Mountain, 
The Beach, The Space Station, or The City.  Each group chooses one location from the adventure map and 
works together to share their experiences. The teacher provides pre-written questions (“Have you seen a 
tiger in the jungle?”, “Have you eaten a strange fruit in the jungle?” or “Have you travelled to the jungle?”) and 
sentence starters for students and uses pictures or flashcards of animals, places, or activities that relate 
to the locations to help students visualise the experience. She gives students sentence frames to make the 
conversation easier, such as: “I have been to ___”, “I haven’t done ___”, “I’ve never been to ___”. They take turns 
asking and answering questions about what they have or haven’t done at that location. After completing the 
conversation in groups, each group presents their answers to the class. The storyteller in each group shares 
what their group has discovered about the adventure location. To conclude the activity, she/he asks the 
students to share one thing they have never done but would like to try in the future. Students reflect on their 
thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_869 =====
869
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 7: LIFE IN NATURE
Sub-themes: Animals and natural resources in nature; 
protecting animals and nature
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in nature” and covers the sub-
themes of “animals and natural resources in nature; protecting animals and 
nature”. These components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning 
process through the contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical 
structures, phonological features, and social language expressions. The 
learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, 
and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ developmental 
level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to 
equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively 
use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 14 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.4. Self-Efficacy, D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.1. Empathy, 
D2.2. Responsibility, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, D2.5. Playfulness,  D3.1. 
Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.4. Seeking the Truth, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning, 
D3.9. Doubting, D3.10. Critical Perspective
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1 Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2 Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill 
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS8. Sustainability 
Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_870 =====
870
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Visual Arts, Music, Physical Education and 
Sports, Technology and Design
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information 
Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. 
Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based 
Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, 
CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.18. Argumentation Skill, CS2.19. 
Logical Auditing Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, 
CS3.2. Problem Solving Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_871 =====
871
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 7 is structured based on inductive approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.7.7.L1.  Students can prepare and get ready for listening (to)/watching about the current content on 
“life in nature with animals and natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature”.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience about the current theme and 
content to recall their background knowledge by investigating it carefully.
b) Students identify significant and necessary relationships and connections between their pre-
existing knowledge, their past experience and the clues to the current content by responding 
to meaningful questions about it (without speaking Turkish or using a translation).
c) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by using their pre-existing 
knowledge and past experience of the content.
d) Students make rational predictions about the current content by looking at the supplementary 
visual elements provided. 
ENG.7.7.L2.  Students can bring together the information in the current content on “life in nature with 
animals and natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature”.
a) Students identify the main topic of the current content in general by listening (to)/watching it 
as a whole in its context. 
b) Students recognise the significant details and basic components of the current content within 
the whole by listening (to) and watching the whole content carefully to notice them.
ENG.7.7.L3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “life in nature 
with animals and natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature”.
a) Students check their initial predictions about the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between their self-predictions and the clues provided as visuals surrounding 
the content.
b) Students make significant and necessary classifications in the current content that affect the 
meaning of the generally perceived content.
c) Students make significant and necessary comparisons in the generally perceived current 
content to highlight differences between two or more different things by using visuals, ensuring 
clarity and meaning.
d) Students recognise significant branching, linear or spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content.
e) Students make essential inferences and deductions to understand the meaning of the 
generally perceived current content better.
f) Students strongly recognise the holistic meaning formed by the components, comparisons, 
classifications, and details related to the current content.
g) Students construct a detailed understanding of the meaning of the current content through 
prior classifications, comparisons, and inferences/deductions.
h) Students position, internalise and personalise current content in an individualised, age-
appropriate and level-appropriate way.
ENG.7.7.L4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to 
the listening (to)/watching process about the current content on “life in nature with animals 
and natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature” in relation to themselves or 
others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students individually convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings 
that are critically reviewed in relation to the current listening (to)/watching contents and the 
process.

===== PDF_PAGE_872 =====
872
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current listening (to)/watching content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce new audio/visual products individually by revising their personal work after 
participating in reflective activities related to the listening (to)/watching process of the current 
content.
ENG.7.7.P1.  Students can select and use target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases, clauses, and sentences in utterances authentically, naturally, 
and accurately in the current content about “life in nature with animals and natural resources in 
nature; protecting animals and nature” to develop holistic and conscious pronunciation skills 
after recognising them in context. 
a) Students recognise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases and sentences in utterances within the current content by 
listening (to)/ watching it, first as a whole and then with pauses.
b) Students repeat utterances, including target sentences, clauses, phrases, and words with 
target theme-specific sounds by considering phonological aspects such as pronunciation and 
intonation accurately and naturally in the content several times as a whole class and then in 
groups and individually.
c) Students talk about the current content by taking part in small group conversations by paying 
attention to select and use accurate phonological aspects such as pronunciation, intonation, 
stress, and other features as they are understood.
d) Students reflect personally on their pronunciation and other target phonological aspects such 
as intonation after recording and listening to group conversations about the target content.
e) Students evaluate feedback from others and their personal feedback and reflection by 
listening to or watching the audio/visual content again to check for accuracy.
f) Students utilise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of utterances including target sounds of the current content, appropriately, effectively, 
accurately, naturally, automatically, and consciously when communicating with others in 
different contexts.
ENG.7.7.R1.  Students can prepare for reading the content on “life in nature with animals and natural 
resources in nature; protecting animals and nature” efficiently and effectively.
a) Students recall and activate significant pre-existing knowledge and past experiences that can 
be related to the current theme and content through careful exploration. 
b) Students recognise significant relationships between pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to current content.
c) Students make strong preliminary predictions about the current content based on explored 
and recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring and examining the 
audio-visual clues in relation to it.
ENG.7.7.R2.  Students can bring information together about the current content on “life in nature with 
animals and natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature” through skimming, 
scanning and detailed reading.
a) Students skim the current content by looking very quickly and carefully at the surrounding 
visual materials to identify its general focus.
b)  Students scan the current content by reading it silently and quickly to find key and major 
components.

===== PDF_PAGE_873 =====
873
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students read the current content again silently and carefully to examine any significant 
semantic and structural details.
d) Students examine the semantic details in the content carefully to check the accuracy of their 
initial predictions.
ENG.7.7.R3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “life in nature 
with animals and natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature”.
a) Students classify significant and necessary elements of the current content in a meaningful 
way.
b) Students compare significant and key elements of the current content with each other or with 
similar ones in a meaningful way.
c) Students recognise significant and basic spiral, causal, and logical relationships in the current 
content through careful examination and analysis.
d) Students make meaningful inferences from information in the current content by examining 
it critically.
e) Students internalise their meaningful inferences from information in the current content in an 
individualised way appropriate to their age and language level.
ENG.7.7.R4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related 
to the reading process about the current content on “life in nature with animals and natural 
resources in nature; protecting animals and nature” in relation to themselves or others, both 
individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content 
and process with others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
ENG.7.7.V1.  Students can select and use target vocabulary efficiently, effectively, and accurately, based on 
the current content about “life in nature with animals and natural resources in nature; protecting 
animals and nature” after recognising them in context and developing their conscious and 
inductive vocabulary learning skills.
a) Students make predictions about the main topic of the current content by identifying “general 
contextual clues” from the visual, audio, and written preparation materials provided during the 
“listening/watching for gist” and/or reading for “skimming” sessions.
b) Students check the accuracy of the predictions related to the “general contextual clue” by 
listening to, watching, and/or reading the audio, visual, and/or written content in context.
c) Students search the target audio/visual, and/or written content by scanning to find key 
components of the theme.
d) Students listen/watching the content carefully and/or read it silently to identify and underline/
circle target unknown words.
e) Students separate target (key-active) words from the other (non-key-passive) words in the 
target content.
f) Students examine relevant target words, phrases, and expressions in the current content to 
understand how and where they are used.
g)  Students determine paragraph context clues to identify the topics of the parts/paragraphs 
containing unknown target words.

===== PDF_PAGE_874 =====
874
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
h)  Students discuss the meaning of the target words by finding indirect sentence context clues 
in the assigned sentences of the parts/paragraphs of the content.
i)  Students determine the correct meanings of the target words in the current content in pairs 
or groups by comparing the meanings/definitions proposed.
j) Students confirm the accuracy of the meanings/definitions of the target words in the current 
content by consulting with the teacher, the class and/or by using printed or digital dictionaries.
k) Students make use of the target words of the current theme in a range of semantically 
associated contextual activities and tasks accurately, naturally, authentically, and 
appropriately.
l) Students make use of the target words of the current theme accurately, naturally, appropriately 
and effectively through careful selection when communicating with others.
ENG.7.7.G1.  Students can select and use target grammatical language items efficiently, effectively, 
and accurately, based on the current content about “life in nature with animals and natural 
resources in nature; protecting animals and nature”, after recognising them in context and 
developing their conscious and inductive grammaring skills through consciousness-raising 
and discovery.
a)  Students listen to, watch, and/or read the audio, visual, and written current content presented 
in context that introduces the general use of the target language structures in the current 
theme.
b) Students examine example sentences provided by the teacher or instructional materials 
including target grammatical items to see how the target grammatical structure(s) of the 
target theme is/are used to construct a meaning or contribute to meaning.
c) Students analyse current audio, visual, and/or written content presented in context to identify 
sentences similar to those provided as examples.
d) Students find the commonalities between the sentences identified and those exemplified by 
the teacher or materials through careful comparison in pairs and/or groups.
e) Students discover the characteristics of the commonalities in the sentences in the current 
content by discussing them in pairs or groups as an awareness/consciousness-raising activity.
f) Students formulate rule(s) about the same/target grammar structure(s) of the current theme 
based on their observations and discussions in pairs or groups.
g)  Students engage in contextual activities on the use of target grammatical structures 
(grammaring) of the current theme to explain and justify the grammar rule(s) they have 
discovered.
h) Students practise to consolidate their understanding of the target grammar that they 
discovered by selecting accurate and meaningful items in meaningful and contextualised 
activities.
i) Students produce accurate and unique verbal or written content by us ing target grammar 
consciously and in a natural way, without thinking about the rules.
j) Students produce new spoken/written content by using the target grammatical structures 
efficiently, authentically, automatically, and naturally in context when communicating with 
others without thinking about rules.
ENG.7.7.W1.  Students can prepare for writing efficiently and accurately based on the current content about 
“life in nature with animals and natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature”.
a) Students relate pre-existing knowledge and experiences from initial listening, watching, and 
reading processes to current content by examining and activating them.
b) Students understand what the current writing task requires in terms of content and purpose in 
relation to the current content accurately by applying pre-existing knowledge and experiences, 
following guided instructions.

===== PDF_PAGE_875 =====
875
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.7.7.W2.  Students can analyse and understand a provided model to guide them in producing similar 
writing tasks related to the content on “life in nature with animals and natural resources in 
nature; protecting animals and nature”.
a) Students grasp the significant and basic components of the content in the model/sample 
provided for the assigned writing task, including word selection and use, grammar selection 
and use, and other details such as type, style, and meaning as required.
ENG.7.7.W3.  Students can construct new written content on “life in nature with animals and natural 
resources in nature; protecting animals and nature” based on their understanding of the 
model(s) provided.
a) Students share their ideas and thoughts by brainstorming through collaborative discussion to 
generate ideas for the new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current 
theme.
b) Students plan how the knowledge and ideas generated during the brainstorming session can 
be applied to their new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current theme.
c) Students conduct preliminary research relevant to the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) 
writing task on the current content, considering the type of writing, age appropriateness, and 
language level.
d) Students produce a well-organised and detailed draft relevant to the (prepared and/or 
unprepared) type of writing and appropriate for the age and language level.
e) Students organise and develop contextual materials relevant to the type of the assigned task 
(prepared and/or unprepared) and appropriate to age and language level.
f) Students modify the content they produce for the assigned writing task in a coherent and 
meaningful way, consistent with the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) type of writing, 
and appropriate to the age and language level.
ENG.7.7.W4.  Students can practise producing written content based on the current theme “life in nature 
with animals and natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature”.
a) Students present relevant supportive materials appropriate to the assigned (prepared and/
or unprepared) writing task, considering the type of writing and appropriated to the age and 
language level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and strategies for the assigned (prepared 
and/or unprepared) writing task, considering its writing type and appropriate to their age and 
language level.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language structures accurately and appropriately 
in their writing tasks, by selecting necessary and appropriated ones in line with the assigned 
type of writing and appropriate to the age and language level.
d) Students express their messages about the current content clearly to the reader in the 
assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task.
ENG.7.7.W5.  Students can engage in the process of writing related to the content on “life in nature with 
animals and natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature”.
a) Students review the feedback from the teacher and/or peers critically on their prepared and/
or unprepared writing task(s).
b) Students revise to reorganise the written content of their prepared and/or unprepared task 
based on the feedback received from the teacher and/or peers.
c) Students refine and develop their written content produced for their prepared/unprepared 
writing task through the iterative feedback process.
ENG.7.7.W6.  Students can reconstruct their writing about the current theme on “life in nature with animals 
and natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature” to communicate effectively 
about it.

===== PDF_PAGE_876 =====
876
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students adapt and use individually internalised information in current or similar content by 
selecting and reorganising it meaningfully in written form as necessary when communicating 
with other people in different contexts.
b) Students exchange information and ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge and content with others.
ENG.7.7.W7.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the writing 
process about the current content on “life in nature with animals and natural resources in 
nature; protecting animals and nature” in relation to themselves or others, both individually 
and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings they review 
critically in relation to their current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current writing-expression content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce their new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current writing-expression content and process.
ENG.7.7.S1.  Students can prepare themselves to speak meaningfully, fluently, and efficiently about the 
current content on “life in nature with animals and natural resources in nature; protecting 
animals and nature”.
a) Students relate current content by analysing pre-existing knowledge and experiences from 
earlier listening, watching, and reading sessions to associate them with the current content.
ENG.7.7.S2.  Students can analyse and understand the model content related to “life in nature with animals 
and natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature” to support the production of 
spoken language.
a) Students grasp what the provided model/example is about with the help of audio, visual, and/
or written elements after listening, watching, and/or reading the current content.
ENG.7.7.S3.  Students can produce meaningful and accurate spoken content related to the current theme 
on “life in nature with animals and natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature”.
a) Students recognise which form and type of spoken content is expected and assigned based on 
the model/example about the current theme for both prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations through careful examination.
b) Students conduct preliminary research on the expected and assigned content to be produced 
for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students develop a draft outline in accordance with the assigned prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations as presented in the model/example, appropriate to the age and language 
level based on the current theme.
d) Students organise supplementary audio-visual materials in accordance with the assigned 
task as presented in the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations 
and appropriate to their age and language level. 
e) Students organise information related to the current content to be presented, appropriate to 
the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
f) Students critically review their prepared presentation content for accuracy, coherence, and 
appropriateness to audience and context in prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.

===== PDF_PAGE_877 =====
877
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.7.7.S4.  Students can construct meaningful spoken content about “life in nature with animals and 
natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature” through efficient and meaningful 
practice.
a) Students make spoken content clear and understandable to listeners by selecting and using 
style and form appropriate to age and language level in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
b) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using materials appropriate to the 
context, age, language level, style, and type of discourse, similar to those presented in the 
model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using target vocabulary and language 
structures similar and/or appropriate to those presented in the model/example considering 
their age, language level, context, style, and type of discourse for prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations.
d) Students convey relevant explicit, implicit, and/or complex messages related to the current 
content clearly in context to the listeners by using appropriate material and body language in 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
e) Students convey their messages about the current content clearly to the listeners by 
incorporating all the necessary semantic elements in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
ENG.7.7.S5.  Students can reconstruct the information about “life in nature with animals and natural 
resources in nature; protecting animals and nature” when communicating with others.
a) Students use the same or similar information presented in the current content in verbal or 
written forms in different contexts by reorganising it meaningfully, accurately, effectively, 
efficiently, functionally, and individually as required.
b) Students engage in verbal and/or written communication by sharing the reconstructed 
meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.7.7.S6.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the speaking 
process about the current content on “life in nature with animals and natural resources in 
nature; protecting animals and nature” in relation to themselves or others, both individually 
and/or with others.
a) Students reveal their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they review critically 
in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
critically review in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process with 
others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_878 =====
878
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN NATURE 
Sub-themes: Animals and natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature 
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for animals and natural resources in nature: 
Nouns: A fly, a frog, an insect, a deer, a fox, an eagle, an owl, a lizard, a turtle, a dolphin, a shark, a whale, an 
octopus, a butterfly, a bee, an ant, a spider, a creature.
Natural resources in nature: 
Nouns: Rain, soil, sand, grass, a bush, wildlife, oil, mineral, sunlight, wind.
Vocabulary for protecting animals and nature: 
Nouns: Balance, environment, a resource, eco-system, pollination, a habitat, climate (change), pollution.
Verb: To save, to care, to feed, to plant, to volunteer, to destroy.
Adjective: Endangered, strategic, huge
Quantifier: Several.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Zero Conditional: (If it rains, the plants in the forest grow faster).
-Comparatives of regular and irregular adjectives (less, good, bad, more): (This year’s drought is worse for 
wildlife than last year’s).
-Superlatives of regular and irregular adjectives: (The cheetah is the fastest land animal in nature).
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of Zero Conditional: Express general truths, scientific facts, or habits that occur when a condition is 
met.
-Use of comparatives of regular and irregular adjectives (less, good, bad, more): Comparing two things, 
highlighting differences.
-Use of superlatives of regular and irregular adjectives: Expressing the highest or lowest degree of a quality 
among three or more things.
Target Social Language in Use:
Take a leaf out of your brother’s book-he always protects the nature! 
Cut down on waste and use reusable bottles!
Make a change by planting more trees!

===== PDF_PAGE_879 =====
879
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
q, r, s, t, u
Vowel: u: (/juː/, /ʌ/, /juː/)
Consonants: q: /kjuː/, r: /ɑː/(Br), /r/ (AmE.); s: (/s/, /ɛs/, /z/); t: (/tiː/, /t/)
*(Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme.)
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “life in nature” and its components such as “animals and natural resources 
in nature; protecting animals and nature” is present in almost all languages. People who start to learn a 
new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to their new language learning. 
For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what “life in nature” and its components such as 
“animals and natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature” means but will not know how to say 
them in another language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing 
knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more 
easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts: 
Animals,  natural resources,  nature;  animals, natural resources in nature,  protecting animals protecting 
nature.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will focus on a creative exploration of animals and natural resources 
in their surroundings. They will choose an animal or a natural resource (like water, trees, or minerals) and 
create a short story, poster, or video to highlight its importance in nature. Students are asked to explain 
how this animal or resource contributes to the environment and what challenges it faces. Additionally, they 
will brainstorm and present practical steps individuals can take to protect animals and preserve natural 
resources. The assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking 
scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “life in nature” and its components such as “animals and 
natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature”. As they are lower secondary school students in 
year 7 (seven), they can know what “life in nature” and its components such as “animals and natural resources 
in nature; protecting animals and nature” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people 
who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and 
transfer it to their new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these things in 
a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing 
knowledge in their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a 
foreign language, in this case English.
As they are students in year 7 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “life 
in nature” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or years. These 
grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning of the year, and 
they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current theme, so 
that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “life in nature” and its components such as “animals and natural resources in nature; 
protecting animals and nature”. Recalling and practising with relevant vocabulary and grammatical items 

===== PDF_PAGE_880 =====
880
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning 
the current content on the concept of “life in nature”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise 
all vocabulary and grammatical items from the previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in 
English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they 
remember and how much they are able to understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks 
to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to 
revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their 
performance can be evaluated by rubrics throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students are asked to recall the concept of “life in nature” by remembering their pre-existing background 
knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with the current 
activities in the theme in English without saying anything in Turkish and without translating anything until 
they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English. To remind them of their pre-
existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, many materials such as “a 
scene from a short film, a passage from a book, a part from a personal diary (journal),  a part of a story, a 
collection of pictures, a part of an animation, a poster, an excerpt from a video etc.” related to this content 
can be shared with the class before the main teaching/learning flow begins. The materials about the 
current concept would give a general idea of the theme. Students are work on the material according to the 
instructions and try to grasp it. The teacher tries to check if they have an idea about the topic of the new 
theme with several activities. When they have finished working on them, the teacher asks them in English 
if they have understood what has been in the material. She/He asks them to write a related words that they 
already know (learnt in previous years) in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/ box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways for checking their comprehension could be tried by the teacher.
They wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the theme, the digital 
introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme “life in nature”  in the classroom, to prepare the students emotionally, 
cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as an icebreaker 
to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their well-being  (D1.5, 
V12.1, V13.4). This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/singing a song/
chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote, a very short 
story, watching a pantomime/online story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current theme and 
does not require any knowledge of the current theme in English  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.4, V7.2, V13.2, 
LS4). That is only for relaxation and preparation for the lesson.
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills are used in an integrated way around a central  topic “life in nature”  and the sub-themes 
of “animals and natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature” , allowing students to build 
background knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the 
theme. They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning 
outcomes of the theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning 
practices, they are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one 
to promote language development and to increase communicative competence. The  theme “life in nature” 
is characterised by a balanced integration of all the skills, where students engage with input  (listening/
watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) and respond through output  (speaking-expression 
and writing-expression) with the help of their grammar, vocabulary and phonological selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_881 =====
881
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.7.L1.
PREPARATION FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students prepare to access the introduction to the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to remember what they have done during the “establishing links” 
session for recalling background knowledge about the related concept where they watched a short film 
scene prepared for that section  (which is not a part of the introductory digital story of the theme)  (D3.2, 
V3.4,LS1, LS2, LS4).  They remember what they already know about the content to prepare themselves to 
work on guessing the topic of the current theme  (V5.2, V9.3, V16.2, LS1, LS5).  They prepare to access the 
main materials of the theme for having connections by making predictions based on the short film in the 
“establishing links” session  (D3.8, V3.3, LS1, LS4). 
ENG7.7. L2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER BY LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students collect “general context clues” to 
understand the whole content by looking at visual clues before listening  (to)/watching. The teacher asks the 
students to look at any visual material such as pictures, posters, and realia related to the current content to 
identify the topic of the content and to answer the question “What is the whole content about?”  (D3.6,V5.2, 
V9.3, V16.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, LS8, CS2.2) . They can realise that there might be different elements related to 
this concept  (D2.1, V4.5) . The teacher asks them to look at the visuals quickly to make predictions about 
the topic of the whole theme by using the “listening  (to)/watching for gist” strategy before listening/watching 
the main visual material of the theme, which is the introductory digital story  (D3.8, V4.5, LS1, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.11). The teacher asks the students to read the title of the theme and asks them to brainstorm by thinking 
about which words they already know and whichwords come to mind in connection with the title  (D3.4, LS2, 
CS2.12, CS2.16.2). She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new/target words they do not know 
at this stage of the lesson. She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity to guess the general 
topic/theme of the context by using the words they already know and that there will be time to work on the 
new words of the current content later  (D1.4, V12.2). At this stage, some guessing games can be played to 
guess the main topic of the current content/theme by using the clues from the additional visuals such as 
pictures, posters, etc. related to the content, prepared and produced by the teacher, by using web 2.0 tools  
(D2.5, D3.3,SELS2.1, V3.4, LS2, LS4, CS2.12). 
ENG7.7.L3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  Students identify and recognise the topic of the 
current theme by listening  (to)/watching the introductory digital story that provides a context for the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the introductory digital story to recognise the 
topic of the theme in general  (This is a kind of preparation to work on the target key vocabulary in the later 
stages of the lesson (s)  (D3.2, V3.4). The teacher asks the students to recall the work done with visuals  (the 
scene from a short film) in the “establishing links” session about the current context shown earlier during the 
listening  (to)/ watching session  (D3.2, LS2). Students watch the digital introductory story and consolidate 
the identification of the target theme as a whole  (CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that 
the students can hear/ see the context as a whole and understand the theme holistically.  (D3.1, V5.2, V9.3, 
V16.2, LS2,LS4, LS5, LS8). 
MAKING MEANING THROUGH THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE THEME BY LISTENING/W ATCHINfG:  
Students find and identify the main components of the current content by listening  (to)/watching the 
context quickly through scanning. The teacher organises a scanning activity to find out the components as 
the basic and most important details of the current content through the introductory digital story to help 
students learn and know more about the current theme. She/He asks the students to listen and watch the 
story again without stopping, by scanning/looking for any relevant words or concepts that are heard in the 
story  (D3.6, V3.4, LS2, LS4, LS7). The teacher hands out a sheet to the students on which there is a list of 

===== PDF_PAGE_882 =====
882
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
words/phrases, etc. to tick, circle or underline. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard through 
watching the story very quickly without stopping. The teacher could apply different versions of scanning 
activities such as finding important elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which 
elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, LS1, CS2.4 ).  In this 
way, they will be able to understand the story in general through the main elements and components by 
eliminating the irrelevant ones. Students share with the whole class the words and components they have 
found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the teacher to them  (D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.4). Then they 
discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class  (SELS2.2, CS2.8).  This is evaluated as described in 
items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After having 
watched the introductory digital story, the teacher places five headings on the smart board/whiteboard/
blackboard which are on the target vocabulary list of the related theme as clues to the components of the 
current theme  (D3.7, V5.2, V9.3, V16.2, LS5). She/He places a corresponding picture next to each component 
and writes the name of each heading. She/He guides students to understand the heading of each category 
with the help of pictures. The teacher asks the students to work with the words they already know during 
this phase of the lesson  (SELS1.2).  Students work on these categories with the help of the scenes from the 
introductory digital story  (D3.6, LS2, LS4). The teacher reads the headings aloud a few times by pointing to 
the corresponding pictures on the board and the students repeat them. Then the students say the headings 
all together. For working on the sub-themes of “animals and natural resources in nature; protecting animals 
and nature” further, the teacher asks volunteers to go to the board and choose the picture  (already provided 
by the teacher) to stick/pin/ drag it on the white/black board or the smart board  (if the teacher asks)  (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.2,V3.4, V20.4, LS2, LS4).  Then, they say the headings  (components) together as a whole 
class. In this way, the main components of the theme “life in nature”  are introduced to the students in English 
(LS5. At this stage, the meanings of the target words are not studied, but the categorisation of the basic 
components contributes to their recognition of the concept in general. The teacher could ask the students 
to decide which words in the introductory digital story they do not know and to note them while reading 
the text later in the reading session  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.8, SELS1.1, V3.4). This could be evaluated as described 
in items  (1),  (2),  (3),  (6)  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum. All this work helps them understand the main categories through classifications and also the 
inferences they make while listening to and watching the introductory digital story and/or examining the 
picture related to the content. In this way, they recognise and comprehend the main concept as a whole 
through categorisation, comparison, and inference  (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5). 
ENG7.7.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS : Students check the accuracy of their prior 
guesses, reflect on their ideas and feelings about the listening/watching session, and give feedback to each 
other. After the students listen  (to)/watch the introductory digital story to find the main components of 
the theme, the teacher asks them whether their guesses they made during the “establishing links” session, 
looking at visuals session, and their first listening  (to)/watching session have been correct  (D3.8,V4.2, V4.3, 
LS2, LS4).  As they have already seen a scene from a short film created about the concept of the current 
theme, during the “establishing links” session earlier, and looked at some supplementary visuals  (pictures, 
the title of the theme) and also they saw the picture related to the introductory digital story they can easily 
answer what the current theme is about and that their guesses were correct  (D3.4, V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, 
CS2.8). The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
listening  (to)/watching process and students talk about them individually  (SELS1.3) and share them with 
the whole class  (D2.3, SELS.2.1, V4.2).  After the reflection and feedback session, they talk again about the 
components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their ideas  (SELS2.2, V4.2, V10.3). 

===== PDF_PAGE_883 =====
883
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.7.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Students recognise the pronunciation and other phonological 
aspects of target utterances, including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch an extract from the introductory digital story as 
the main context for noticing the target phonological elements  (LS1, LS2, LS4) .  She/He asks them to pay 
attention to the target pronunciation and/or other phonological aspects in the current content. The teacher 
asks them to notice how the target phonological aspects are used in context. Starting with the extract from 
the digital story, students go on with other contextual examples and activities to hear and understand the 
use of target elements in context  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION  (AND OTHER PHONOLOGICAL ASPECTS ): Students 
select and use accurate, natural, and authentic target pronunciation and other phonological aspects of the 
target utterances including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme“life in 
nature”. After recognition activities, students repeat the target utterances including sentences, clauses, 
phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme aloud a few times as a whole class with accurate and 
natural pronunciation and other phonological aspects after listening  (to)/watching the recordings that the 
teacher has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes or some other AI-based technologies  
(D3.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2). To help the students pronounce the target utterances including sentences, clauses, 
phrases, words, and sounds accurately, the teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as 
showing the target utterance to the students and they say it or letting them listen to the recording, then 
turning off the recording randomly and students say the utterances they hear from the recording  (D3.2, 
D3.7, D2.3).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one 
out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound exercises by getting help from 
AI technologies  (D2.5,SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). Along with the target utterances, the target 
sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are also practised in the same ways. This 
is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) as described in the section1.2.Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7). 
FURTHER PRACTICE OF THE TARGET PRONUNCIATION : Students practise pronunciation with further 
activities for practice, consolidation, feedback and reflection. The teacher could use tape recording and 
feedback techniques. Students read aloud and record a text with the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the  current  theme   provided  by  the  teacher, at home  (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.3, SELS3.1, V4.1,V5.1, LS2, LS5) . They bring their recording (s) to school. First, they listen to the 
correct pronunciation of the text,provided by the teacher, in class. Then they listen to the recordings of 
individual students. During or after listening to the texts recorded by the students at home, the students give 
self-feedback or peer feedback on the pronunciation of the words in the recordings  (D2.4, D3.6, SELS1.3, 
SELS2.2, V4.1, V12.1, V14.1, LS1,LS5) .  If available, a different version of the recording technique could be 
applied in the class. The teacher asks the students to discuss, say/talk about something, which they already 
know, related to the theme. Groups take turns to talk and the rest of the class listens  (D2.3, D2.4, SELS2.2).  
During this session, the teacher records their discussions. After each group’s performance, the class listens 
to the recording for pronunciation and everyone gives feedback on it, including the individual students who 
have spoken during the discussion  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS1). The teacher can get 
help from AI-based technologies for these activities if available. Students’ performances are evaluated as 
explained in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
pronunciation process and students talk about them individually  (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole 
class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS2,CS2.15) .  After the reflection and feedback 
session, they talk again about the components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their 
ideas  (SELS1.2, V3.3, V6.2,V10.3, LS1, LS2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_884 =====
884
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.7.V1
PREPARATION FOR THE WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To scan for finding the main components 
of the theme“life in nature”  ,  the teacher asks the students to listen to and watch the introductory digital 
story to remember the topic of content mentioned in the previous listening/watching sessions. The teacher 
also asks them to check their predictions made in the first listening/watching session at the beginning of the 
lessons on the current theme once more again  (D3.8, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS7). Then the teacher 
asks the students to read the relevant parts of the written version of the introductory digital story provided 
by the teacher by scanning  (reading very quickly) to check the main components and categories with the 
help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations with the headings that the teacher 
has previously written on the smart board/white board/blackboard in relation to the main components of the 
theme“life in nature”   (D3.7, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.8). Students read the written 
extract from the story very quickly to check the main components corresponding to the headings that the 
teacher has written on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on the list  (already provided by the 
teacher) at their seats  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4) . The teacher could apply different versions of scanning activities 
such as finding important components, categories, and elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list 
and finding which elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes  (LS1, LS7, CS2.4, 
CS2.8). In this way, they can understand the story in general better with the help of reading this time after 
the listening/watching sessions held earlier through the main elements and components by eliminating 
the irrelevant ones  (D3.2,D3.6, D3.7, V3.4, LS1, LS2, CS2.16.1). Students share with the whole class the 
components they have found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the teacher to them  (D2.3, 
SELS2.1).  Then they discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class  (D2.4,D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4, 
V4.2, V16.3, LS1, CS2.8). 
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY  (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  To read for the details for finding 
the new target vocabulary the teacher asks the students to read the written version of the introductory 
digital story  (or another written text for working on the target vocabulary) in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity  
(D3.2, SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the story/text and the second peer reads the other half 
silently in a given time  (V3.4, V4.1, V9.2, LS1, CS2.6). The teacher asks them to look out for new words whose 
meanings they do not know during this silent and detailed reading and asks them to look out for new  (target) 
words they have previously noted during the listening/watching sessions  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.6, D3.8, V3.3, V16.1, 
LS7). They are then asked to share these words with their peers without discussing their meanings in the 
text  (D2.4, D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2,V6.2).  The teacher starts working on the new  (target) words here. In this 
way, they have a detailed reading, understand the story better, and find the new  (target) words that they do 
not know to work on.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To separate key  (active) and non-key  (passive) target vocabulary 
in context: To check whether the students know any of the target key vocabulary about the content, the 
teacher asks them to say the new words whose meaning they do not know and which they have noticed 
and noted during their silent jigsaw reading session and the students do that  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, D3.2, D3.8, 
V3.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). When they say the words, the teacher writes them on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard by putting them on two lists. She/He writes the key  (active) target words on one list and the 
non-key  (passive) target words on the other list  (that she/he has already decided on earlier when planning 
the lesson).  She/He quickly covers the non-key words with examples, pictures, question-answers, however, 
spends more time on the key target words as described below  (D3.2, D3.6, V1.2,V3.4, LS2, LS4). 
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY:  To find “part/paragraph context clues” in the parts/paragraphs 
of the story  (context): The teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again, paying 
attention to which part of the story the unknown words that they do not know are in the utterances  (D3.2, 
D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4). He wants to introduce the meanings of the target key  (active) vocabulary 
related to the theme that the students do not know part by part. Then she/he asks them to read the first 

===== PDF_PAGE_885 =====
885
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
part/paragraph in the written version of the story  (or similar text) where the unknown words  (active key 
target vocabulary) appear  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS5, LS7, CS2.8). Then she/he asks them whether they 
understand the meaning of the part/paragraph  (D3.8, SELS3.1).  She/He asks them to discuss the meaning 
of the part/paragraph in pairs in general without knowing the meaning of each new target word and asks 
what helps them understand the meaning of the part/paragraph   (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, LS1, LS7). Students 
discuss the meaning of the part/paragraph in pairs  (D3.10, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.18) and report back to the 
class. The teacher takes notes on the board and writes what the part/paragraph is about in one word/clause/
sentence in the story  (V6.2, LS1, LS5, CS2.16.1). As each part/ paragraph covers a different but related piece 
of the whole topic, they realise that each part/paragraph contains new target words about a specific part of 
the whole theme. This helps them think about what each new target word in each part/paragraph could be 
about  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, CS2.16.1).  These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (5),  (6),  
(7), and  (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To find “sentence clues”/“the indirect context clues” for the target 
key  (active) words in the sentences in context: The teacher helps the students deal with each target key 
word by looking around these words in the sentences for collecting clues which can help them understand 
the meaning of these unknown target words. Starting from the first unknown target  (key) word, students 
are asked to look at the words around the target  (key) words  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.8, D3.9, D3.10, SELS3.1, LS1, 
S2.1,CS2.16.3). These clues could be linking words, adjectives, adverbs, determiners, suffixes, prefixes, 
time expressions that can help them understand the meaning of the unknown target word  (but they do not 
talk about the terminology and parts of speeches, instead they talk about the meanings and functions of 
these supportive surrounding words).  The teacher asks students to work in pairs to go through and list the 
“indirect clues” for each word  (D3.5,D3.7, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, CS2.7, CS2.17). When they finish working in 
pairs, the teacher goes through each word with the whole class and listens to what clues they have found 
to understand the meaning of the unknown target  (key) word in the sentences  (SELS3.1,V4.1, LS7). This is 
evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION AND SELECTION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To practise with the target words: To practise 
with the target vocabulary that the students work on through “sentence clues/indirect context clues”, the 
teacher checks their understanding again by showing them some realia that she/he has already provided  
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, LS5,CS2.5). The teacher shows them to the students and asks them to think about what 
they are and share them with their peers and then they check the answers with the whole class  (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.19). Then the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again and 
shows the corresponding pictures to the students when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
story, without stopping the video while they are watching the story  (LS2, LS4).  When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the realia/visual elements, etc. about the content and asks in the form of two 
options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that they already know  (D3.6, LS5, CS2.7, CS3.1). 
As they have studied the words through the “part/paragraph and sentences clues” in reading the text earlier, 
the students can choose the correct option when they hear the words for the related theme and they answer 
them after talking about them in pairs  (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, V6.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1). In this way they can 
further practise the meaning of the target words. These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  
(4),  (6),  (7),  (8) and  (9) in the section1.2 Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Further vocabulary practice through dialogical work: The 
teacher shows the story again, and from the beginning, whenever a target vocabulary item is mentioned 
in the story, the teacher stops the video and asks questions  (or lets the students ask and answer each 
other).  In this way, they are engaged in various dialogues and use the target words in these dialogues  (D2.3, 
D3.8, SELS2.1,V4.1, V6.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.8) . So, they revise and practise the meanings of the target  (key) 
vocabulary of the theme “life in nature”. This kind of technique could be applied with different and enjoyable 
activities according to the preference of the teacher. These activities are conducted in the form of a dialogue 

===== PDF_PAGE_886 =====
886
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
where their learning can be checked as described in items  (2) and  (6) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum. Further activities and games are played at this stage to reinforce 
the meaning of the target words by using several materials including AI-based and web 2.0  (D2.5, SELS2.1, 
V3.4, V4.2, V4.4). They can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem with 
technology  (LS4) . These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8) and  (9) in the 
section in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Consolidation of the target vocabulary: To further practise 
the target vocabulary, the teacher can prepare an activity with images/pictures of target vocabulary using 
the web 2.0 tools. She/He mixes these images/pictures for the target vocabulary items and puts them in 
a raffle programme by using a web 2.0 tools or a real box in the classroom. She/He asks the students to 
take turns to go to the white/black board and to draw a picture related to the target components of the 
current theme  (D2.3, SELS1.2).  Then students say several things about the items in the picture  (D1.5, 
D2.3, V3.4, LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.20). The teacher asks the students in their seats to take notes while the 
student at the white/black board talks about the picture she/he has drawn and to give feedback by raising 
yes/no cards, or correcting if there are mistakes, etc., and also repeat the sentences after him/her  (D3.9, 
D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4,CS3.3). When the student at the white/black board finishes, the teacher asks her/
him to put the picture under the right category that she/he has previously placed on the white/black board 
earlier. In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the concepts of the target  theme will be revised 
and consolidated once again through categorisation  (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5).  The teacher asks the students to 
write a definition or an example sentence in their personal dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their 
dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling and definitions  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, 
V6.2,CS2.20). Students’ learning can be checked and evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8) 
and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. When the vocabulary 
session is over, the teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the 
process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.1, SELS1.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  They also give feedback to each other  
(D2.1, D2.4, V6.1, V9.2, V10.3). 
ENG7.7.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS  (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  Consciousness raising- 
discovery for the use of target language structures in inductive learning process: The teacher writes some 
sentences on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to read the sentences. Then she/he 
asks them to watch the introductory digital story again to draw their attention to the use of target grammatical 
structures of the theme  “life in nature”  (D3.2, LS7) . The introductory digital story is replayed so that the 
students can notice the use of language with the target grammar structures  (LS2) .  While watching the 
introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the language with the target grammatical 
structures is used. When the students finish watching the introductory digital story again, the teacher asks 
the students to read and examine the example sentences carefully  (D3.2, D3.6, LS7, CS2.2, CS2.6, CS3.2). 
Then she/he asks the students to work in pairs and find similar sentences with the target grammar structure 
(s) in the theme to those written by her/him on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard  (SELS2.2, V 3 .4, 
CS2.7).  The students look at the written version of the story and find similar sentences to those given by the 
teacher as examples  (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.7).  The teacher then asks the students to discuss and list the 
common features in these sentences and what kind of things are used repeatedly and why they think they 
are used in that way  (D3.1, D3.6, D3.10, SELS3.1, V3.3, V4.2, CS2.4, CS3.3). Students examine the teacher’s 
example sentences, find the similar sentences in the written version of the story and discuss them by making 
a list of similarities and repeated commonalities  (D3.6, SELS3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.7). The 
teacher asks the pairs to say what they have found  (D2.3, CS2.10).  As the pairs say what they have found, 
the teacher writes them on the board and gives the class time to look at them and think about them  (D3.6, 
D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.3, CS2.10, CS2.16.1, CS3.3). Then the teacher hands out a piece of paper and asks the 

===== PDF_PAGE_887 =====
887
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
students to make a rule about what they have noticed regarding the target structures. Students create a 
rule about the use of target grammatical structures of the theme by working in pairs and they read it to the 
class and give each other feedback on the rules  (D3.1, SELS2.2, SELS3.3, V3.3, LS1, CS2.9,CS2.16.1). The 
teacher shows a sentence that explains the rule correctly and asks the students to check if their rules are 
correct or the teacher gives a table in which the rule for the language with the target grammatical structure 
is incomplete. She/He asks the students to complete it by working in pairs  (D3.1, SELS2.2, V4.2) . Then 
they check the rule as the whole class and reflect on their experiences on how and how much they have 
learnt  (D2.4, SELS1.1, SELS1.3, V6.1, V10.3, LS1, CS2.15). This process is applied again for the other target 
grammatical structures in the theme if there are any. These activities are evaluated as described in items  
(5),  (8) and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS IN CONTEXT:  Students practise the use of the 
language including the target grammatical structures: The teacher asks the students to work on grammar 
tasks she/he assigns  (D2.2, D2.3, V3.3, V3.4, CS2.13). These tasks could be the ones that the teacher 
provides. The teacher shows some other contents in the form of a dialogue, a short paragraph, a short story, 
etc. with sentences including the target grammar structures and asks the students to find the sentences 
with the target grammatical structures in them and asks if they understand them easily  (D3.2, D3.7, D3.10, 
CS2.13, CS2.20, CS3.3). She/He facilitates some oral or written activities and exercises for the students to 
further practise the target grammatical structures in context in pairs or groups  (SELS2.2).  She/He also 
facilitates more fun activities and games in which students talk, act out, mime, write, etc. with pen and 
paper, digital, AI-based, etc. materials and contexts so that they can practise and consolidate the target 
grammatical structures by selecting and using them accurately, efficiently, and naturally in context   (D2.5, 
D3.2, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, V4.4, LS2, CS2.13). They engage in several dialogic activities in which they share 
information, ideas and thoughts for communicating with their classmates. They exchange information and 
ideas to others by using target grammatical content  (D3.5, SELS2.2, V3.4) . When the session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the grammar discovery and 
use process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.3, V6.1, LS6,CS2.15). They also give feedback to each other  (D2.1, D2.4, 
V4.2, V10.3, SELS2.2). This is evaluated as described in items  (5),  (8) and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG7.7.R1
PREPARING FOR READING: The teacher facilitates reading activities throughout the theme “life in nature”  
from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise techniques and the necessary 
amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the theme in various forms and 
amounts as it is explained above  (in the vocabulary section) in terms of how it is taught and when it needs to 
be clarified. Various reading styles such as silent reading, jigsaw reading and speed reading are used during 
the pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases. The ultimate aim of reading practice is to enhance 
comprehension, improve fluency, develop critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend and talk about 
the current content and related issues in a meaningful way  (V3.2, LS1, CS3.3) . Students are provided a 
new text (s) to practise their reading skills through the current theme. They look at the surrounding visual 
materials, the title of the text and other supportive elements to guess the topic of the new reading content 
and they make predictions to be checked after reading the text  (D1.1, SELS3.1,V3.3, LS4, CS2.2, CS2.11, 
CS2.16.2). 
ENG7.7.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: Students read the new reading text carefully to 
check their predictions made in the preparation session at the beginning of the lesson  (SELS1.2, V3.4, LS1, 
CS2.8).  Then they read the text very quickly  (scanning) to check the main components and categories with 

===== PDF_PAGE_888 =====
888
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations that are provided by the teacher  
(V3.3,LS4, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.6).  They compare the components they have found in the text with those written 
by the teacher on the smart board/whiteboard related to the sub-themes of “animals and natural resources 
in nature; protecting animals and nature”   (D3.6, V5.2, V9.3, V16.2, LS2, LS5, LS8, CS2.7) . Students read 
the text very quickly to check that the main components correspond to the headings written by the teacher 
on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on the list  (already provided by the teacher) at their 
desks  (V3.4, LS7, CS2.8). The teacher could use different versions of the scanning activities as described in 
the “listening/watching- comprehension” section above. In this way, they can understand the text in general 
better with the help of scanning  (CS2.16.1).  They share the components with the whole class  (SELS2.1) and 
then they discuss the accuracy of the results as a whole class   (D2.3, D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.2, LS1, CS2.8). 
ENG7.7.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Students read the new text silently in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity 
as they have done in the vocabulary session earlier   (D3.2, SELS2.2,V4.1). During the reading session, they 
look out for new words whose meanings they do not know  (if there are any, other than the target words 
previously covered in the listening/watching-comprehension and vocabulary recognition sessions)  (CS2.6).  
They work on the new words in the same way as in the vocabulary sessions. Then they deal with the semantic 
meaning conveyed in the text through display questions, then semi-closed activities and then open-ended 
activities   (V3.3, V6.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.6). They deal with the meaning by using strategies from the closed to 
the open-ended range to understand the  theme “life in nature”  in terms of the sub-themes of “animals and 
natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature” mean from different perspectives to build their 
own understandings  (D3.6, D3.8, SELS3.1, CS2.13).  The teacher facilitates a number of activities to help the 
students improve their comprehension, synthesis and evaluation skills after applying the knowledge they 
have gained from the reading process  (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, CS2.3, CS2.17, CS2.20).  After this stage, they 
work on activities to connect their knowledge and skills they have acquired about the current content with 
CLIL  (history, maths, science, etc.) and cultural issues to be able to enrich their perspectives on the current 
theme  (D3.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V5.2, V9.3, V16.2, LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.13, CS2.14).  In this way, they will have 
the opportunity to develop their knowledge and language competence through reading. They can have the 
opportunity to develop their cognitive, emotional, cultural, social, and creative skills through the process of 
reading  (SELS3.3, V7.2, CS2.20). 
ENG7.7.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING PROCESS: Students reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation 
to the whole reading-comprehension process  (SELS1.3).  They talk about them individually and then share 
them with the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1,V4.2, CS2.15). After the reflection and feedback 
session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas  (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, 
V4.3, V12.1, LS1). 
ENG7.7.W1.
PREPARATION FOR WRITING-EXPRESSION:  Students are facilitated throughout the theme with writing 
activities, from the first lesson to the last when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount of writing. At the beginning of the writing process, students recall their pre-existing 
knowledge about the current content to make a link between what they know and what they are going to 
write about  (D3.2, SELS1.1, CS2.12).  This includes examining all the audio/visual sources and elements 
provided for understanding the writing task  (V3.2,LS1, CS2.2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_889 =====
889
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.7.W2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL : Students listen  (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the writing task they have been given  (CS2.2).  These are limited and short pieces of writing to see how the 
language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the written language, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the  theme “life in nature”. Initially, they 
practise the language in a more controlled way, writing to repeat or simply explain what they have heard 
and seen and/ or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to 
understand how the language is used in the target content by examining the model/example writing carefully  
(V3.4, LS2, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge 
they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to 
current content in their later free writing tasks  (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, LS1). 
ENG7.7.W3.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WRITTEN CONTENT: After working on a sample/model writing task, students begin 
to produce/construct similar tasks of their own. They participate in several writing activities individually, in 
pairs, in groups and as a whole class  (D2.3, SELS2.2,V4.1).  Their products could range from writing a word 
to a phrase, a clause to a full sentence, a group of sentences to a short paragraph, an essay to a short story. 
These writing activities will help students to produce and display meaningful written language for personal 
expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language expressions in 
this theme as in others  (SELS2.1, LS1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.7.W4.
PRACTISING BY PRODUCING WRITTEN CONTENT: Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
essays, diaries/journals, blogs, scripts for plays, documentaries, films, etc. to express their ideas, thoughts, 
and feelings in relation to the current topic  (D1.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.20).  They take part in 
individual or collaborative projects to improve their writing skills together with social, cultural, cognitive, and 
affective aspects  (D1.4, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2). Within this variety, they can find the opportunities to 
show how they can use the language that they have learnt to describe and comment on the current content 
for developing new ideas about them in different genres of writing, according to their potential needs for 
expressing themselves and communication with others  (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V5.2, V9.3, V16.2, LS5, LS8, 
CS2.14, CS3.3). Storification and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further 
writing practice  (D2.5,LS9). 
ENG7.7.W5.
PROCESS WRITING: Controlled writing of words, sentences and paragraphs turns to process writing with 
the support of the teacher’s and also peers’ feedback in the theme. This process is expanded and supported 
with additional activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, etc. to practise further by 
writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, 
enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9,CS2.13, CS2.14).  A. All 
the content is formed as contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests, 
and language level. Students improve their writing after reviewing the feedback they receive and this spiral, 
cyclical, and ongoing work becomes a progressive path for students  (D3.1, SELS1.2, V12.3, LS1, CS3.1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_890 =====
890
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.7.W6.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students communicate their ideas, thoughts 
and feelings about the the sub-themes of “animals and natural resources in nature; protecting animals 
and nature” through their writing tasks  (V5.2, V9.3, V16.2, CS3.3) . They can use AI-based technologies for 
various activities, by having access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital written materials 
and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways to interact and communicate with peers and/or other 
people inside and outside school by using the language including target words, language chunks, and the 
social language expressions for the relevant theme in their writing  (D3.3, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V11.1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.20). All writing activities can be evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (5),  (9),  (10),  (11) and  
(12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG7.7.W7.
REFLECTING THROUGH WRITING:  The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and 
feelings in relation to the whole writing-expression process  (SELS1.3)  and students talk about them 
individually and share them with the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3,SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15).  After the reflection 
and feedback session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas  (SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1,LS1). 
SPEAKING-EXPRESSION
Practising through speaking from controlled to communicative stages: The teacher facilitates speaking 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the last. Speaking activities support students’ 
learning and help them to produce meaningful language for personal expression and communication with 
others, by using the language including the target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions of the theme.  (V3.4, V4.5, LS1, LS5). 
ENG7.7.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING : In the beginning, students recall their background knowledge about the 
theme through listening/watching and/or reading and then they talk about it  (SELS1.1, CS2.12).  Students 
practise the target language items in a controlled way, by saying, repeating, explaining what they hear and 
see in the context, for instance, in the introductory digital story and the listening and reading sections in 
different contexts  (SELS3.2).  Then they can expand their language use and practice in each section by 
increasing the amount of speaking they do  (D1.3, V3.4, LS1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.7.S2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL:  Students listen  (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the speaking task they have been given  (CS2.2).  These are limited and short pieces of speaking to see how 
the language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the spoken language, 
after hearing them through listening activities in the theme. Initially, they practise the language in a more 
controlled way, repeating some utterances, simply explaining what they have heard and seen, and/or 
what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to understand how the 
language is used in the target content by examining the speaking model/example carefully  (V3.3, V5.2, V9.3, 
V16.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2) .They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge they 
have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to the 
current theme in their later free speaking tasks  (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, V3.4, LS5). 

===== PDF_PAGE_891 =====
891
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.7.S3.
PRODUCTION OF MEANINGFUL AND ACCURATE CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons, the teacher 
prepares new contexts for the students in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading the language 
including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme  “life in nature” in fun, enjoyable, 
varied, and versatile activities  (SELS3.2, V7.2, LS9). These newly created contents are contextual, practical, 
authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. They participate in such 
speaking activities individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class  (D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.20). 
ENG7.7.S4.
CONSTRUCTING MEANINGFUL SPOKEN CONTENT:  Students produce various spoken content and their 
products could range from producing a simple utterance including a word to a phrase, a clause to a full 
sentence, a group of sentences to a short speech, a dialogue to a spoken presentation  (SELS3.3, V3.4, 
CS2.20). These speaking activities will help students to produce accurate and meaningful spoken language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme “life in nature”  as in others  (D3.6, SELS2.1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.7.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Collaborative and communicative activities 
are designed and used to revise and consolidate the whole theme “life in nature”  on the sub-themes of 
“animals and natural resources in nature; protecting animals and nature”  (V4.5, LS5, CS2.13, CS2.14) . 
Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further speaking 
practice throughout the theme  (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.1, V4.2, LS4, LS9). Students are encouraged to 
produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, short texts, 
presentations, etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people inside and/or outside the 
school by using the language including the target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
for the current theme  (SELS2.3, V3.4, V7.1, V7.2, LS1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for 
various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and 
projects for speaking at school and at home through recordings  (D3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V7.3, V11.1, LS2).  
All these speaking activities can be evaluated as described in items  (1),  (2),  (3),  (4),  (5),  (7),  (8),  (9),  (10), and  
(11) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG7.7.S6.
REFLECTING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students are encouraged to reflect individually or collaboratively in 
groups on their own individual learning  (SELS1.3) or on their collaborative learning in pairs, groups or as a 
whole class collaboratively  (D2.3, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  The activities will help and support students in these 
feedback and reflection sessions. Their feedback is shared with peers and the teacher and takes the form 
of interactive and ongoing feedback that can help their own improvement  (SELS1.2, SELS2.1) and also they 
contribute to the improvement of their peers in their learning processes  (V4.1, V4.3,V12.1, V12.3, LS1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_892 =====
892
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To engage in group work activities about nature in English to improve reading, writing and speaking 
skills by using the target vocabulary and the grammatical structures (Zero Conditional-Comparatives-
Superlatives).
Activity 1: Let’s Save The Wildlife
The teacher divides the class into groups and hands out a text about how the wildlife was in the past and asks 
the students to discuss and compare the past times to the present times in terms of environmental problems 
and the problems in the wildlife by reading the text. The students can make at least five comparisons (e.g., 
There are more endangered animals today than there was in the past., It rains less today.). Then they are 
asked to write a fact about how to protect wildlife (e.g., If we plant trees, it rains more.). The teacher invites 
the groups one after another and asks them to present their outcomes to their classmates. At the end of 
the session, the students complete the form given by the teacher to share their ideas and feelings about 
the activity (e.g., I really enjoyed this activity because __________., This was a bit hard activity because 
__________________). The teacher provides constructive feedback on grammar, vocabulary and presentation 
skills. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To engage in group work activities about nature in English to improve reading, writing and 
speaking skills by using the target vocabulary and the language grammatical structures (Zero Conditional-
Comparatives-Superlatives).
Activity 1: Let’s Save The Wildlife
The teacher divides the class into groups and hands out a text about how the wildlife was in the past and asks 
the students to discuss and compare the past times to the present times in terms of environmental problems 
and the problems in the wildlife by reading the text. The students can make at least five comparisons by 
completing the sentences given by the teacher (e.g., There are _________(endangered) animals today than 
there was in the past., It rains ________ (little) today.). Then they are asked to write a fact about how to protect 
wildlife by looking at the example supplied by the teacher (e.g., If we plant trees, it rains more.). The teacher 
invites the groups one after another and asks them to present their outcomes to their classmates. At the 
end of the session, the students choose the most appropriate choices in the form given by the teacher to 
share their ideas and feelings about the activity (e.g., I really enjoyed this activity because it made me feel 
like I can make a difference in helping the environment., This was a bit hard activity because I had difficulty 
creating a fact.). The teacher provides constructive feedback on grammar, vocabulary and presentation 
skills. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_893 =====
893
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 8: LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE & FUTURE
Sub-themes: Space technology; life in the future with 
robots
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in the universe and future” and 
covers the sub-themes of “space technology; life in the future with robots”. These 
components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning process through the 
contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological 
features, and social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities 
are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are 
tailored to align with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and 
preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the 
knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively use English in their 
daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 14 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.4. Self-Efficacy, D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.1. Empathy, 
D2.2. Responsibility, D2.3. Assertiveness,  D2.4. Trust, D2.5. Playfulness,  D3.1. 
Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.4. Seeking the Truth, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning, 
D3.9. Doubting, D3.10. Critical Perspective
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill  
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_894 =====
894
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Social Studies, Visual Arts, Music, Physical Education and 
Sports, Technology and Design
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information 
Gathering Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. 
Generalisation Skill, CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based 
Prediction Skill, CS2.12. Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, 
CS2.14. Interpretation Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical 
Reasoning Skill, CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.18. Argumentation Skill, CS2.19. 
Logical Auditing Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, 
CS3.2. Problem Solving Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_895 =====
895
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 7 is structured based on inductive approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.7.8.L1.  Students can prepare and get ready for listening (to)/watching about the current content on 
“life in the universe and future with space technology; life in the future with robots”.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience about the current theme and 
content to recall their background knowledge by investigating it carefully.
b) Students identify significant and necessary relationships and connections between their pre-
existing knowledge, their past experience and the clues to the current content by responding 
to meaningful questions about it (without speaking Turkish or using a translation).
c) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by using their pre-existing 
knowledge and past experience of the content.
d) Students make rational predictions about the current content by looking at the supplementary 
visual elements provided. 
ENG.7.8.L2.  Students can bring together the information in the current content on “life in the universe and 
future with space technology; life in the future with robots”.
a) Students identify the main topic of the current content in general by listening (to)/watching it 
as a whole in its context. 
b) Students recognise the significant details and basic components of the current content within 
the whole by listening (to) and watching the whole content carefully to notice them.
ENG.7.8.L3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “life in the 
universe and future with space technology; life in the future with robots”.
a) Students check their initial predictions about the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between their self-predictions and the clues provided as visuals surrounding 
the content.
b) Students make significant and necessary classifications in the current content that affect the 
meaning of the generally perceived content.
c) Students make significant and necessary comparisons in the generally perceived current 
content to highlight differences between two or more different things by using visuals, ensuring 
clarity and meaning.
d) Students recognise significant branching, linear or spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content.
e) Students make essential inferences and deductions to understand the meaning of the 
generally perceived current content better.
f) Students strongly recognise the holistic meaning formed by the components, comparisons, 
classifications, and details related to the current content.
g) Students construct a detailed understanding of the meaning of the current content through 
prior classifications, comparisons, and inferences/deductions.
h) Students position, internalise and personalise current content in an individualised, age-
appropriate and level-appropriate way.
ENG.7.8.L4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related 
to the listening (to)/watching process about the current content on “life in the universe and 
future with space technology; life in the future with robots” in relation to themselves or others, 
both individually and/or with others.
a) Students individually convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings 
that are critically reviewed in relation to the current listening (to)/watching contents and the 
process.

===== PDF_PAGE_896 =====
896
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current listening (to)/watching content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce new audio/visual products individually by revising their personal work after 
participating in reflective activities related to the listening (to)/watching process of the current 
content.
ENG.7.8.P1.  Students can select and use target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases, clauses, and sentences in utterances authentically, 
naturally, and accurately in the current content about “life in the universe and future with space 
technology; life in the future with robots” to develop holistic and conscious pronunciation skills 
after recognising them in context. 
a) Students recognise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases and sentences in utterances within the current content by 
listening (to)/ watching it, first as a whole and then with pauses.
b) Students repeat utterances, including target sentences, clauses, phrases, and words with 
target theme-specific sounds by considering phonological aspects such as pronunciation and 
intonation accurately and naturally in the content several times as a whole class and then in 
groups and individually.
c) Students talk about the current content by taking part in small group conversations by paying 
attention to select and use accurate phonological aspects such as pronunciation, intonation, 
stress, and other features as they are understood.
d) Students reflect personally on their pronunciation and other target phonological aspects such 
as intonation after recording and listening to group conversations about the target content.
e) Students evaluate feedback from others and their personal feedback and reflection by 
listening to or watching the audio/visual content again to check for accuracy.
f) Students utilise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of utterances including target sounds of the current content, appropriately, effectively, 
accurately, naturally, automatically, and consciously when communicating with others in 
different contexts.
ENG.7.8.R1.  Students can prepare for reading the content on “life in the universe and future with space 
technology; life in the future with robots” efficiently and effectively.
a) Students recall and activate significant pre-existing knowledge and past experiences that can 
be related to the current theme and content through careful exploration. 
b) Students recognise significant relationships between pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to current content.
c) Students make strong preliminary predictions about the current content based on explored 
and recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring and examining the 
audio-visual clues in relation to it.
ENG.7.8.R2.  Students can bring information together about the current content on “life in the universe and 
future with space technology; life in the future with robots” through skimming, scanning and 
detailed reading.
a) Students skim the current content by looking very quickly and carefully at the surrounding 
visual materials to identify its general focus.
b)  Students scan the current content by reading it silently and quickly to find key and major 
components.

===== PDF_PAGE_897 =====
897
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students read the current content again silently and carefully to examine any significant 
semantic and structural details.
d) Students examine the semantic details in the content carefully to check the accuracy of their 
initial predictions.
ENG.7.8.R3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “life in the 
universe and future with space technology; life in the future with robots”.
a) Students classify significant and necessary elements of the current content in a meaningful 
way.
b) Students compare significant and key elements of the current content with each other or with 
similar ones in a meaningful way.
c) Students recognise significant and basic spiral, causal, and logical relationships in the current 
content through careful examination and analysis.
d) Students make meaningful inferences from information in the current content by examining 
it critically.
e) Students internalise their meaningful inferences from information in the current content in an 
individualised way appropriate to their age and language level.
ENG.7.8.R4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to 
the reading process about the current content on “life in the universe and future with space 
technology; life in the future with robots” in relation to themselves or others, both individually 
and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content 
and process with others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
ENG.7.8.V1.  Students can select and use target vocabulary efficiently, effectively, and accurately, based 
on the current content about “life in the universe and future with space technology; life in 
the future with robots” after recognising them in context and developing their conscious and 
inductive vocabulary learning skills.
a) Students make predictions about the main topic of the current content by identifying “general 
contextual clues” from the visual, audio, and written preparation materials provided during the 
“listening/watching for gist” and/or reading for “skimming” sessions.
b) Students check the accuracy of the predictions related to the “general contextual clue” by 
listening to, watching, and/or reading the audio, visual, and/or written content in context.
c) Students search the target audio/visual, and/or written content by scanning to find key 
components of the theme.
d) Students listen/watching the content carefully and/or read it silently to identify and underline/
circle target unknown words.
e) Students separate target (key-active) words from the other (non-key-passive) words in the 
target content.
f) Students examine relevant target words, phrases, and expressions in the current content to 
understand how and where they are used.
g)  Students determine paragraph context clues to identify the topics of the parts/paragraphs 
containing unknown target words.

===== PDF_PAGE_898 =====
898
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
h)  Students discuss the meaning of the target words by finding indirect sentence context clues 
in the assigned sentences of the parts/paragraphs of the content.
i)  Students determine the correct meanings of the target words in the current content in pairs 
or groups by comparing the meanings/definitions proposed.
j) Students confirm the accuracy of the meanings/definitions of the target words in  the current 
content by consulting with the teacher, the class and/or by using printed or digital dictionaries.
k)  Students make use of the target words of the current theme in a range of semantically 
associated contextual activities and tasks accurately, naturally, authentically, and 
appropriately.
l) Students make use of the target words of the current theme accurately, naturally, appropriately 
and effectively through careful selection when communicating with others.
ENG.7.8.G1.  Students can select and use target grammatical language items efficiently, effectively, and 
accurately, based on the current content about “life in the universe and future with space 
technology; life in the future with robots”, after recognising them in context and developing 
their conscious and inductive grammaring skills through consciousness-raising and discovery.
a) Students listen to, watch, and/or read the audio, visual, and written current content presented 
in context that introduces the general use of the target language structures in the current 
theme.
b) Students examine example sentences provided by the teacher or instructional materials 
including target grammatical items to see how the target grammatical structure(s) of the 
target theme is/are used to construct a meaning or contribute to meaning.
c) Students analyse current audio, visual, and/or written content presented in context to identify 
sentences similar to those provided as examples.
d) Students find the commonalities between the sentences identifies and those exemplified by 
the teacher or materials though careful comparison in pairs and/or groups.
e) Students discover the characteristics of the commonalities in the sentences in the current 
content by discussing them in pairs or groups as an awareness/consciousness-raising activity.
f) Students formulate rule(s) about the same/target ‘grammar structure(s) of the current theme 
based on their observations and discussions in pairs or groups.
g) Students engage in contextual activities on the use of target grammatical structures 
(grammaring) of the current theme to explain and justify the grammar rule(s) they have 
discovered.
h) Students practise to consolidate their understanding of the target grammar that they 
discovered by selecting accurate and meaningful items in meaningful and contextualised 
activities.
i) Students produce accurate and unique verbal or written content by using target grammar 
consciously and in a natural way, without thinking about the rules.
j) Students produce new spoken/written content by using the target grammatical structures 
efficiently, authentically, automatically, and naturally in context when communicating with 
others without thinking about rules.
ENG.7.8.W1.  Students can prepare for writing efficiently and accurately based on the current content 
about “life in the universe and future with space technology; life in the future with robots”.
a) Students relate pre-existing knowledge and experiences from initial listening, watching, and 
reading processes to current content by examining and activating them.
b) Students understand what the current writing task requires in terms of content and purpose in 
relation to the current content accurately by applying pre-existing knowledge and experiences, 
following guided instructions.

===== PDF_PAGE_899 =====
899
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.7.8.W2.  Students can analyse and understand a provided model to guide them in producing similar 
writing tasks related to the content on “life in the universe and future with space technology; 
life in the future with robots”.
a) Students grasp the significant and basic components of the content in the model/sample 
provided for the assigned writing task, including word selection and use, grammar selection 
and use, and other details such as type, style, and meaning as required.
ENG.7.8.W3.  Students can construct new written content on “life in the universe and future with space 
technology; life in the future with robots” based on their understanding of the model(s) 
provided.
a) Students share their ideas and thoughts by brainstorming through collaborative discussion to 
generate ideas for the new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current 
theme.
b) Students plan how the knowledge and ideas generated during the brainstorming session can 
be applied to their new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current theme.
c) Students conduct preliminary research relevant to the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) 
writing task on the current content, considering the type of writing, age appropriateness, and 
language level.
d) Students produce a well-organised and detailed draft relevant to the (prepared and/or 
unprepared) type of writing and appropriate for the age and language level.
e) Students organise and develop contextual materials relevant to the type of the assigned task 
(prepared and/or unprepared) and appropriate to age and language level.
f) Students modify the content they produce for the assigned writing task in a coherent and 
meaningful way, consistent with the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) type of writing, 
and appropriate to the age and language level.
ENG.7.8.W4.  Students can practise producing written content based on the current theme “life in the 
universe and future with space technology; life in the future with robots”.
a) Students present relevant supportive materials appropriate to the assigned (prepared and/
or unprepared) writing task, considering the type of writing and appropriated to the age and 
language level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and strategies for the assigned (prepared 
and/or unprepared) writing task, considering its writing type and appropriate to their age and 
language level.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language structures accurately and appropriately 
in their writing tasks, by selecting necessary and appropriated ones in line with the assigned 
type of writing and appropriate to the age and language level.
d) Students express their messages about the current content clearly to the reader in the 
assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task.
ENG.7.8.W5.  Students can engage in the process of writing related to the content on “life in the universe 
and future with space technology; life in the future with robots”.
a) Students review the feedback from the teacher and/or peers critically on their prepared and/
or unprepared writing task(s).
b) Students revise to reorganise the written content of their prepared and/or unprepared task 
based on the feedback received from the teacher and/or peers.
c) Students refine and develop their written content produced for their prepared/unprepared 
writing task through the iterative feedback process.

===== PDF_PAGE_900 =====
900
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.7.8.W6.  Students can reconstruct their writing about the current theme on “life in the universe and 
future with space technology; life in the future with robots” to communicate effectively about 
it.
a) Students adapt and use individually internalised information in current or similar content by 
selecting and reorganising it meaningfully in written form as necessary when communicating 
with other people in different contexts.
b) Students exchange information and ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge and content with others.
ENG.7.8.W7.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the writing 
process about the current content on “life in the universe and future with space technology; 
life in the future with robots” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with 
others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings they review 
critically in relation to their current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current writing-expression content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce their new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current writing-expression content and process.
ENG.7.8.S1.  Students can prepare themselves to speak meaningfully, fluently, and efficiently about the 
current content on “life in the universe and future with space technology; life in the future with 
robots”.
a) Students relate current content by analysing pre-existing knowledge and experiences from 
earlier listening, watching, and reading sessions to associate them with the current content.
ENG.7.8.S2.  Students can analyse and understand the model content related to “life in the universe and 
future with space technology; life in the future with robots” to support the production of 
spoken language.
a) Students grasp what the provided model/example is about with the help of audio, visual, and/
or written elements after listening, watching, and/or reading the current content.
ENG.7.8.S3.  Students can produce meaningful and accurate spoken content related to the current theme 
on “life in the universe and future with space technology; life in the future with robots”.
a) Students recognise which form and type of spoken content is expected and assigned based on 
the model/example about the current theme for both prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations through careful examination.
b) Students conduct preliminary research on the expected and assigned content to be produced 
for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students develop a draft outline in accordance with the assigned prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations as presented in the model/example, appropriate to the age and language 
level based on the current theme.
d) Students organise supplementary audio-visual materials in accordance with the assigned 
task as presented in the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations 
and appropriate to their age and language level. 
e) Students organise information related to the current content to be presented, appropriate to 
the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
f) Students critically review their prepared presentation content for accuracy, coherence, and 
appropriateness to audience and context in prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.

===== PDF_PAGE_901 =====
901
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.7.8.S4.  Students can construct meaningful spoken content about “life in the universe and future with 
space technology; life in the future with robots” through efficient and meaningful practice.
a) Students make spoken content clear and understandable to listeners by selecting and using 
style and form appropriate to age and language level in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
b) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using materials appropriate to the 
context, age, language level, style, and type of discourse, similar to those presented in the 
model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using target vocabulary and language 
structures similar and/or appropriate to those presented in the model/example considering 
their age, language level, context, style, and type of discourse for prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations.
d) Students convey relevant explicit, implicit, and/or complex messages related to the current 
content clearly in context to the listeners by using appropriate material and body language in 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
e) Students convey their messages about the current content clearly to the listeners by 
incorporating all the necessary semantic elements in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
ENG.7.8.S5.  Students can reconstruct the information about “life in the universe and future with space 
technology; life in the future with robots” when communicating with others.
a) Students use the same or similar information presented in the current content in verbal or 
written forms in different contexts by reorganising it meaningfully, accurately, effectively, 
efficiently, functionally, and individually as required.
b) Students engage in verbal and/or written communication by sharing the reconstructed 
meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.7.8.S6.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the speaking 
process about the current content on “life in the universe and future with space technology; 
life in the future with robots” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with 
others.
a) Students reveal their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they review critically 
in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
critically review in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process with 
others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_902 =====
902
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE & FUTURE
Sub-themes: Space technology; life in the future with robots
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for space technology: 
Nouns: An app, a discovery, an equipment, an experiment, a programme, a secret, a planet, a vehicle, the 
universe, a spaceship, a function, a research.
Verb: To discover, to produce, to research.
Adjective: Future (tech), accurate. 
Adverbs: beyond, gradually.
Prepositions: Towards. 
Vocabulary for life in the future with robots:
Nouns: Industry, a researcher, a machine, a scientist, a trick, workforce, a solution, an earthquake, a survivor.
Verb: To achieve, to appear, to lead, to progress, to locate. 
Adjective: Smart, scientific, advanced, experienced, intelligent.
Adverb: Instead, likely.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
- “ B e  G o i n g  t o  F u t u r e  T e n s e ” :  ( S c i e n t i s t s  a r e  g o i n g  t o  w o r k  o n  h o w  m a c h i n e s  c a n  p r o g r e s s  i n  s p a c e  p r o g r a m s ) .                                                                                                     
-The Simple Future Tense: (A smart vehicle will appear in the market to assist astronauts).
-Question tags for the future with “be going to” and “will”: (The researchers are going to produce new 
equipment for exploring distant planets, aren’t they?)
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of “Be Going to Future Tense”: Expressing future plans, intentions, or something that is likely to happen 
based on present evidence.                                                                                                       
-Use of the Simple Future Tense: Expressing predictions about what might happen in the future or decisions 
made at the moment of speech.
-Use of question tags for the future with “be going to” and “will”: Confirming information, encouraging 
agreement, or seeking reassurance about future actions, plans, intentions and predictions.
Target Social Language in Use:
We can change the world with technology! 
The Earth is our blue planet! 
Recycling is a step in the right direction!

===== PDF_PAGE_903 =====
903
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
v, w, x, y, z
Consonants: v: (/vi:/); w: (/dʌbəlju:/, /w/); x: (/ɛks/, /ks/,  /gz/); y: (/waɪ/, /j/, /ɪ/, /iː/); z: (/zed/ (Br), /ziː/ (AmE.), 
/z/)
*(Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme).
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “life in the universe and future” and its components such as “space 
technology; life in the future with robots” is present in almost all languages. People who start to learn a new 
language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to their new language learning. For 
instance, a lower secondary school student will know what “life in the universe and future” and its components 
such as “space technology; life in the future with robots” means but will not know how to say them in another 
language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in 
their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more easily in a 
foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts:
Space, technology, space technology, life, future, robots, life in the future, life in the future with robots.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will write a short science fiction story imagining life in the future 
where robots and advanced space technology play a central role. They will describe a day in the life of a 
character who lives in a futuristic city or space station, highlighting how robots assist in daily tasks and 
how space technology influences their lifestyle. Students will include dialogues and creative details about 
the setting, such as futuristic transportation, communication devices, or space exploration activities. The 
assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “life in the universe and future” and its components such 
as “space technology; life in the future with robots”. As they are lower secondary school students in year 7 
(seven), they can know what “life in the universe and future” and its components such as “space technology; 
life in the future with robots” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people who start to 
learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and transfer it 
to their new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these things in a foreign 
language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in 
their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a foreign language, 
in this case English.
As they are students in year 7 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “life in 
universe and future” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or years. 
These grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning of the 
year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current 
theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “life in the universe and future” and its components such as “space technology; life in 
the future with robots”. Recalling and practising with relevant vocabulary and grammatical items in English 
that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current 
content on the concept of “life in the universe and future”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise 

===== PDF_PAGE_904 =====
904
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
all vocabulary and grammatical items from the previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in 
English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they 
remember and how much they are able to understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks 
to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to 
revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their 
performance can be evaluated by rubrics throughout these practices).
Establishing Links
Students are asked to recall the concept of “life in the universe and future” by remembering their pre-
existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links 
with the current activities in the theme in English without saying anything in Turkish and without translating 
anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English. To remind them 
of their pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, many materials 
such as “a scene from a short film, a passage from a book, a part from a personal diary (journal),  a part of a 
story, a collection of pictures, a part of an animation, a poster, an excerpt from a video etc.” related to this 
content can be shared with the class before the main teaching/learning flow begins. The materials about 
the current concept would give a general idea of the theme. Students are work on the material according to 
the instructions and try to grasp it. The teacher tries to check if they have an idea about the topic of the new 
theme with several activities. When they have finished working on them, the teacher asks them in English 
if they have understood what has been in the material. She/He asks them to write a related words that they 
already know (learnt in previous years) in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/ box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways for checking their comprehension could be tried by the teacher.
They wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the theme, the digital 
introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME  (WELL-BEING)” 
Before starting to work on the theme“life in the universe and future”  in the classroom, to prepare the students 
emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as 
an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their 
well-being  (D1.5, V12.1, V13.4). This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/
singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote, 
a very short story, watching a pantomime/online story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current 
theme and does not require any knowledge of the current theme in English  (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.4, V7.2, 
V13.2, LS4). That is only for relaxation and preparation for the lesson.
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills are used in an integrated way around a central topic “life in the universe and future” and 
the sub-themes of “space technology; life in the future with robots” , allowing students to build background 
knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are 
combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the 
theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they 
are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote 
language development and to increase communicative competence. The  theme  “life in the universe and 
future” is characterised by a balanced integration of all the skills, where students engage with input  (listening/
watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) and respond through output  (speaking-expression 
and writing-expression) with the help of their grammar, vocabulary and phonological selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_905 =====
905
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.8.L1.
PREPARATION FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students prepare to access the introduction to the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to remember what they have done during the “establishing links” 
session for recalling background knowledge about the related concept where they watched a short film 
scene prepared for that section  (which is not a part of the introductory digital story of the theme)  (D3.2, 
V3.4,LS1, LS2, LS4).  They remember what they already know about the content to prepare themselves to 
work on guessing the topic of the current theme  (V1.2, V3.4, V11.1, LS1, LS5). They prepare to access the 
main materials of the theme for having connections by making predictions based on the short film in the 
“establishing links” session  (D3.8, V3.3, LS1, LS4). 
ENG7.8. L2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER BY LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students collect “general context clues” to 
understand the whole content by looking at visual clues before listening  (to)/watching. The teacher asks the 
students to look at any visual material such as pictures, posters, and realia related to the current content to 
identify the topic of the content and to answer the question “What is the whole content about?”  (D3.6, V3.3, 
V11.1,LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.2).  They can realise that there might be different elements related to this concept  
(D2.1, V4.5). The teacher asks them to look at the visuals quickly to make predictions about the topic of the 
whole theme by using the “listening  (to)/watching for gist” strategy before listening/watching the main visual 
material of the theme, which is the introductory digital story  (D3.8, V4.5, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.11). The teacher 
asks the students to read the title of the theme and asks them to brainstorm by thinking about which words 
they already know and whichwords come to mind in connection with the title  (D3.4, LS2, CS2.12, CS2.16.2). 
She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new/target words they do not know at this stage of 
the lesson. She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity to guess the general topic/theme of 
the context by using the words they already know and that there will be time to work on the new words of 
the current  content later  (D1.4, V12.2) . At this stage, some guessing games can be played to guess the 
main topic of the current content/theme by using the clues from the additional visuals such as pictures, 
posters, etc. related to the content, prepared and produced by the teacher, by using web 2.0 tools  (D2.5, 
D3.3,SELS2.1, V3.4, LS2, LS4, CS2.12). 
ENG7.8.L3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  Students identify and recognise the topic of the 
current theme by listening  (to)/watching the introductory digital story that provides a context for the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch the introductory digital story to recognise the 
topic of the theme in general  (This is a kind of preparation to work on the target key vocabulary in the later 
stages of the lesson (s)  (D3.2, V3.4). The teacher asks the students to recall the work done with visuals  (the 
scene from a short film) in the “establishing links” session about the current context shown earlier during the 
listening  (to)/ watching session  (D3.2, LS2). Students watch the digital introductory story and consolidate 
the identification of the target theme as a whole  (CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that 
the students can hear/ see the context as a whole and understand the theme holistically  (D3.1, V3.3, V11.1, 
LS2, LS4, LS5). 
MAKING MEANING THROUGH THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE THEME BY LISTENING/W ATCHINfG:  
Students find and identify the main components of the current content by listening  (to)/watching the 
context quickly through scanning. The teacher organises a scanning activity to find out the components as 
the basic and most important details of the current content through the introductory digital story to help 
students learn and know more about the current theme. She/He asks the students to listen and watch the 
story again without stopping, by scanning/looking for any relevant words or concepts that are heard in the 
story  (D3.6, V3.4, LS2, LS4, LS7). The teacher hands out a sheet to the students on which there is a list of 

===== PDF_PAGE_906 =====
906
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
words/phrases, etc. to tick, circle or underline. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard through 
watching the story very quickly without stopping. The teacher could apply different versions of scanning 
activities such as finding important elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which 
elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, LS1, CS2.4 ).  In this 
way, they will be able to understand the story in general through the main elements and components by 
eliminating the irrelevant ones. Students share with the whole class the words and components they have 
found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the teacher to them  (D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.4). Then they 
discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class  (SELS2.2, CS2.8).  This is evaluated as described in 
items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After having 
watched the introductory digital story, the teacher places five headings on the smart board/whiteboard/
blackboard which are on the target vocabulary list of the related theme as clues to the components of the 
current theme  (D3.7, V3.3, V11.1, LS5).  She/He places a corresponding picture next to each component 
and writes the name of each heading. She/He guides students to understand the heading of each category 
with the help of pictures. The teacher asks the students to work with the words they already know during 
this phase of the lesson  (SELS1.2).  Students work on these categories with the help of the scenes from the 
introductory digital story  (D3.6, LS2, LS4). The teacher reads the headings aloud a few times by pointing to 
the corresponding pictures on the board and the students repeat them. Then the students say the headings 
all together. For working on the sub-themes of “space technology; life in the future with robots” further, the 
teacher asks volunteers to go to the board and choose the picture  (already provided by the teacher) to stick/
pin/ drag it on the white/black board or the smart board  (if the teacher asks)  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.2,V3.4, 
V20.4, LS2, LS4).  Then, they say the headings  (components) together as a whole class. In this way, the main 
components of the theme “life in the universe and future” are introduced to the students in English (LS5). At 
this stage, the meanings of the target words are not studied, but the categorisation of the basic components 
contributes to their recognition of the concept in general. The teacher could ask the students to decide 
which words in the introductory digital story they do not know and to note them while reading the text later 
in the reading session  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.8, SELS1.1, V3.4). This could be evaluated as described in items  (1),  (2),  
(3),  (6)  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. All this 
work helps them understand the main categories through classifications and also the inferences they make 
while listening to and watching the introductory digital story and/or examining the picture related to the 
content. In this way, they recognise and comprehend the main concept as a whole through categorisation, 
comparison, and inference  (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5, V3.3, LS2,LS4, LS7). 
ENG7.8.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS : Students check the accuracy of their prior 
guesses, reflect on their ideas and feelings about the listening/watching session, and give feedback to each 
other. After the students listen  (to)/watch the introductory digital story to find the main components of 
the theme, the teacher asks them whether their guesses they made during the “establishing links” session, 
looking at visuals session, and their first listening  (to)/watching session have been correct  (D3.8,V4.2, V4.3, 
LS2, LS4).  As they have already seen a scene from a short film created about the concept of the current 
theme, during the “establishing links” session earlier, and looked at some supplementary visuals  (pictures, 
the title of the theme) and also they saw the picture related to the introductory digital story they can easily 
answer what the current theme is about and that their guesses were correct  (D3.4, V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, 
CS2.8). The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
listening  (to)/watching process and students talk about them individually  (SELS1.3) and share them with 
the whole class  (D2.3, SELS.2.1, V4.2).  After the reflection and feedback session, they talk again about the 
components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their ideas  (SELS2.2, V4.2, V10.3). 

===== PDF_PAGE_907 =====
907
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.8.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Students recognise the pronunciation and other phonological 
aspects of target utterances, including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen  (to)/watch an extract from the introductory digital story as 
the main context for noticing the target phonological elements  (LS1, LS2, LS4) .  She/He asks them to pay 
attention to the target pronunciation and/or other phonological aspects in the current content. The teacher 
asks them to notice how the target phonological aspects are used in context. Starting with the extract from 
the digital story, students go on with other contextual examples and activities to hear and understand the 
use of target elements in context  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4). 
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION  (AND OTHER PHONOLOGICAL ASPECTS ): Students 
select and use accurate, natural, and authentic target pronunciation and other phonological aspects of the 
target utterances including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme “life in the 
universe and future”. After recognition activities, students repeat the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme aloud a few times as a whole class with accurate 
and natural pronunciation and other phonological aspects after listening  (to)/watching the recordings that 
the teacher has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes or some other AI-based technologies  
(D3.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2). To help the students pronounce the target utterances including sentences, clauses, 
phrases, words, and sounds accurately, the teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as 
showing the target utterance to the students and they say it or letting them listen to the recording, then 
turning off the recording randomly and students say the utterances they hear from the recording  (D3.2, 
D3.7, D2.3).  Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one 
out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound exercises by getting help from 
AI technologies  (D2.5,SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). Along with the target utterances, the target 
sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are also practised in the same ways. This 
is evaluated as described in items  (1) and  (2) as described in the section1.2.Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7). 
FURTHER PRACTICE OF THE TARGET PRONUNCIATION : Students practise pronunciation with further 
activities for practice, consolidation, feedback and reflection. The teacher could use tape recording and 
feedback techniques. Students read aloud and record a text with the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the  current  theme   provided  by  the  teacher, at home  (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.3, SELS3.1, V4.1,V5.1, LS2, LS5) . They bring their recording (s) to school. First, they listen to the 
correct pronunciation of the text,provided by the teacher, in class. Then they listen to the recordings of 
individual students. During or after listening to the texts recorded by the students at home, the students give 
self-feedback or peer feedback on the pronunciation of the words in the recordings  (D2.4, D3.6, SELS1.3, 
SELS2.2, V4.1, V12.1, V14.1, LS1,LS5 ).  If available, a different version of the recording technique could be 
applied in the class. The teacher asks the students to discuss, say/talk about something, which they already 
know, related to the theme. Groups take turns to talk and the rest of the class listens  (D2.3, D2.4, SELS2.2).  
During this session, the teacher records their discussions. After each group’s performance, the class listens 
to the recording for pronunciation and everyone gives feedback on it, including the individual students who 
have spoken during the discussion  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS1). The teacher can get 
help from AI-based technologies for these activities if available. Students’ performances are evaluated as 
explained in items  (1) and  (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
pronunciation process and students talk about them individually  (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole 
class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS2,CS2.15) .  After the reflection and feedback 
session, they talk again about the components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their 
ideas  (SELS1.2, V3.3, V6.2,V10.3, LS1, LS2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_908 =====
908
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.8.V1
PREPARATION FOR THE WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To scan for finding the main components 
of the theme “life in the universe and future”,  the teacher asks the students to listen to and watch the 
introductory digital story to remember the topic of content mentioned in the previous listening/watching 
sessions. The teacher also asks them to check their predictions made in the first listening/watching session 
at the beginning of the lessons on the current theme once more again  (D3.8, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, 
LS7). Then the teacher asks the students to read the relevant parts of the written version of the introductory 
digital story provided by the teacher by scanning  (reading very quickly) to check the main components 
and categories with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations with the 
headings that the teacher has previously written on the smart board/white board/blackboard in relation to the 
main components of the theme  “life in the universe and future”  (D3.7, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.4, CS2.8). Students read the written extract from the story very quickly to check the main components 
corresponding to the headings that the teacher has written on the board and then they tick/circle/underline 
them on the list  (already provided by the teacher) at their seats  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4). The teacher could apply 
different versions of scanning activities such as finding important components, categories, and elements on 
a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever 
she/he likes  (LS1, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.8). In this way, they can understand the story in general better with the 
help of reading this time after the listening/watching sessions held earlier through the main elements and 
components by eliminating the irrelevant ones   (D3.2,D3.6, D3.7, V3.4, LS1, LS2, CS2.16.1). Students share 
with the whole class the components they have found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the 
teacher to them  (D2.3, SELS2.1).  Then they discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class  (D2.4,D3.6, 
D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, V16.3, LS1, CS2.8). 
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY  (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  To read for the details for finding 
the new target vocabulary the teacher asks the students to read the written version of the introductory 
digital story  (or another written text for working on the target vocabulary) in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity  
(D3.2, SELS2.2).  One peer reads the first half of the story/text and the second peer reads the other half 
silently in a given time  (V3.4, V4.1, V9.2, LS1, CS2.6). The teacher asks them to look out for new words whose 
meanings they do not know during this silent and detailed reading and asks them to look out for new  (target) 
words they have previously noted during the listening/watching sessions  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.6, D3.8, V3.3, V16.1, 
LS7). They are then asked to share these words with their peers without discussing their meanings in the 
text  (D2.4, D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2,V6.2).  The teacher starts working on the new  (target) words here. In this 
way, they have a detailed reading, understand the story better, and find the new  (target) words that they do 
not know to work on.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To separate key  (active) and non-key  (passive) target vocabulary 
in context: To check whether the students know any of the target key vocabulary about the content, the 
teacher asks them to say the new words whose meaning they do not know and which they have noticed 
and noted during their silent jigsaw reading session and the students do that  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, D3.2, D3.8, 
V3.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). When they say the words, the teacher writes them on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard by putting them on two lists. She/He writes the key  (active) target words on one list and the 
non-key  (passive) target words on the other list  (that she/he has already decided on earlier when planning 
the lesson).  She/He quickly covers the non-key words with examples, pictures, question-answers, however, 
spends more time on the key target words as described below  (D3.2, D3.6, V1.2,V3.4, LS2, LS4). 
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY:  To find “part/paragraph context clues” in the parts/paragraphs 
of the story  (context): The teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again, paying 
attention to which part of the story the unknown words that they do not know are in the utterances  (D3.2, 
D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4). He wants to introduce the meanings of the target key  (active) vocabulary 
related to the theme that the students do not know part by part. Then she/he asks them to read the first 

===== PDF_PAGE_909 =====
909
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
part/paragraph in the written version of the story  (or similar text) where the unknown words  (active key 
target vocabulary) appear  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS5, LS7, CS2.8). Then she/he asks them whether they 
understand the meaning of the part/paragraph  (D3.8, SELS3.1).  She/He asks them to discuss the meaning 
of the part/paragraph in pairs in general without knowing the meaning of each new target word and asks 
what helps them understand the meaning of the part/paragraph   (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, LS1, LS7). Students 
discuss the meaning of the part/paragraph in pairs  (D3.10, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.18) and report back to the 
class. The teacher takes notes on the board and writes what the part/paragraph is about in one word/clause/
sentence in the story  (V6.2, LS1, LS5, CS2.16.1). As each part/ paragraph covers a different but related piece 
of the whole topic, they realise that each part/paragraph contains new target words about a specific part of 
the whole theme. This helps them think about what each new target word in each part/paragraph could be 
about  (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, CS2.16.1).  These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (5),  (6),  
(7), and  (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To find “sentence clues”/“the indirect context clues” for the target 
key  (active) words in the sentences in context: The teacher helps the students deal with each target key 
word by looking around these words in the sentences for collecting clues which can help them understand 
the meaning of these unknown target words. Starting from the first unknown target  (key) word, students 
are asked to look at the words around the target  (key) words  (D3.2, D3.6, D3.8, D3.9, D3.10, SELS3.1, LS1, 
S2.1,CS2.16.3). These clues could be linking words, adjectives, adverbs, determiners, suffixes, prefixes, 
time expressions that can help them understand the meaning of the unknown target word  (but they do not 
talk about the terminology and parts of speeches, instead they talk about the meanings and functions of 
these supportive surrounding words).  The teacher asks students to work in pairs to go through and list the 
“indirect clues” for each word  (D3.5,D3.7, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, CS2.7, CS2.17). When they finish working in 
pairs, the teacher goes through each word with the whole class and listens to what clues they have found 
to understand the meaning of the unknown target  (key) word in the sentences  (SELS3.1,V4.1, LS7). This is 
evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8), and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION AND SELECTION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To practise with the target words: To practise 
with the target vocabulary that the students work on through “sentence clues/indirect context clues”, the 
teacher checks their understanding again by showing them some realia that she/he has already provided  
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, LS5,CS2.5). The teacher shows them to the students and asks them to think about what 
they are and share them with their peers and then they check the answers with the whole class  (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.19). Then the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again and 
shows the corresponding pictures to the students when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
story, without stopping the video while they are watching the story  (LS2, LS4).  When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the realia/visual elements, etc. about the content and asks in the form of two 
options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that they already know  (D3.6, LS5, CS2.7, CS3.1). 
As they have studied the words through the “part/paragraph and sentences clues” in reading the text earlier, 
the students can choose the correct option when they hear the words for the related theme and they answer 
them after talking about them in pairs  (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, V6.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1). In this way they can 
further practise the meaning of the target words. These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  
(4),  (6),  (7),  (8) and  (9) in the section1.2 Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Further vocabulary practice through dialogical work: The 
teacher shows the story again, and from the beginning, whenever a target vocabulary item is mentioned 
in the story, the teacher stops the video and asks questions  (or lets the students ask and answer each 
other).  In this way, they are engaged in various dialogues and use the target words in these dialogues  
(D2.3, D3.8, SELS2.1,V4.1, V6.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.8) . So, they revise and practise the meanings of the target  
(key) vocabulary of the theme “life in the universe and future” . This kind of technique could be applied with 
different and enjoyable activities according to the preference of the teacher. These activities are conducted 

===== PDF_PAGE_910 =====
910
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items  (2) and  (6) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Further activities and games are played at 
this stage to reinforce the meaning of the target words by using several materials including AI-based and 
web 2.0  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4). They can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if 
there is a problem with technology.   (LS4) These activities are evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  
(7),  (8) and  (9) in the section in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Consolidation of the target vocabulary: To further practise 
the target vocabulary, the teacher can prepare an activity with images/pictures of target vocabulary using 
the web 2.0 tools. She/He mixes these images/pictures for the target vocabulary items and puts them in 
a raffle programme by using a web 2.0 tools or a real box in the classroom. She/He asks the students to 
take turns to go to the white/black board and to draw a picture related to the target components of the 
current theme  (D2.3, SELS1.2).  Then students say several things about the items in the picture  (D1.5, 
D2.3, V3.4, LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.20). The teacher asks the students in their seats to take notes while the 
student at the white/black board talks about the picture she/he has drawn and to give feedback by raising 
yes/no cards, or correcting if there are mistakes, etc., and also repeat the sentences after him/her  (D3.9, 
D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4,CS3.3). When the student at the white/black board finishes, the teacher asks her/
him to put the picture under the right category that she/he has previously placed on the white/black board 
earlier. In this way, images/pictures that are relevant to the concepts of the target  theme will be revised 
and consolidated once again through categorisation  (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5).  The teacher asks the students to 
write a definition or an example sentence in their personal dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their 
dictionaries with their peers and check each other’s spelling and definitions  (D1.2, D1.6, D3.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, 
V6.2,CS2.20). Students’ learning can be checked and evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (6),  (7),  (8) 
and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. When the vocabulary 
session is over, the teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the 
process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.1, SELS1.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  They also give feedback to each other  
(D2.1, D2.4, V6.1, V9.2, V10.3). 
ENG7.8.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS  (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE): 
Consciousness raising- discovery for the use of target language structures in inductive learning process: 
The teacher writes some sentences on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to read the 
sentences. Then she/he asks them to watch the introductory digital story again to draw their attention to 
the use of target grammatical structures of the theme “life in the universe and future”  (D3.2, LS7) . The 
introductory digital story is replayed so that the students can notice the use of language with the target 
grammar structures  (LS2).  While watching the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes 
where the language with the target grammatical structures is used. When the students finish watching the 
introductory digital story again, the teacher asks the students to read and examine the example sentences 
carefully  (D3.2, D3.6, LS7, CS2.2, CS2.6, CS3.2). Then she/he asks the students to work in pairs and find 
similar sentences with the target grammar structure (s) in the theme to those written by her/him on the 
smart board/blackboard/whiteboard  (SELS2.2, V 3 . 4,  CS2.7).  The students look at the written version of 
the story and find similar sentences to those given by the teacher as examples  (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.7).  
The teacher then asks the students to discuss and list the common features in these sentences and what 
kind of things are used repeatedly and why they think they are used in that way  (D3.1, D3.6, D3.10, SELS3.1, 
V3.3, V4.2, CS2.4, CS3.3). Students examine the teacher’s example sentences, find the similar sentences in 
the written version of the story and discuss them by making a list of similarities and repeated commonalities  
(D3.6, SELS3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.7). The teacher asks the pairs to say what they have 
found  (D2.3, CS2.10).  As the pairs say what they have found, the teacher writes them on the board and 
gives the class time to look at them and think about them  (D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.3, CS2.10, CS2.16.1, 

===== PDF_PAGE_911 =====
911
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CS3.3). Then the teacher hands out a piece of paper and asks the students to make a rule about what they 
have noticed regarding the target structures. Students create a rule about the use of target grammatical 
structures of the theme by working in pairs and they read it to the class and give each other feedback on the 
rules  (D3.1, SELS2.2, SELS3.3, V3.3, LS1, CS2.9,CS2.16.1). The teacher shows a sentence that explains the 
rule correctly and asks the students to check if their rules are correct or the teacher gives a table in which 
the rule for the language with the target grammatical structure is incomplete. She/He asks the students 
to complete it by working in pairs  (D3.1, SELS2.2, V4.2) . Then they check the rule as the whole class and 
reflect on their experiences on how and how much they have learnt  (D2.4, SELS1.1, SELS1.3, V6.1, V10.3, 
LS1, CS2.15). This process is applied again for the other target grammatical structures in the theme if there 
are any. These activities are evaluated as described in items  (5),  (8) and  (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS IN CONTEXT:  Students practise the use of the 
language including the target grammatical structures: The teacher asks the students to work on grammar 
tasks she/he assigns  (D2.2, D2.3, V3.3, V3.4, CS2.13). These tasks could be the ones that the teacher 
provides. The teacher shows some other contents in the form of a dialogue, a short paragraph, a short story, 
etc. with sentences including the target grammar structures and asks the students to find the sentences 
with the target grammatical structures in them and asks if they understand them easily  (D3.2, D3.7, D3.10, 
CS2.13, CS2.20, CS3.3). She/He facilitates some oral or written activities and exercises for the students to 
further practise the target grammatical structures in context in pairs or groups  (SELS2.2).  She/He also 
facilitates more fun activities and games in which students talk, act out, mime, write, etc. with pen and 
paper, digital, AI-based, etc. materials and contexts so that they can practise and consolidate the target 
grammatical structures by selecting and using them accurately, efficiently, and naturally in context
   (D2.5, D3.2, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, V4.4, LS2, CS2.13). They engage in several dialogic activities in which they 
share information, ideas and thoughts for communicating with their classmates. They exchange information 
and ideas to others by using target grammatical content  (D3.5, SELS2.2, V3.4) . When the session is over, 
the teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the grammar discovery 
and use process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates 
and the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.3, V6.1, LS6,CS2.15). They also give feedback to each other  
(D2.1, D2.4, V4.2, V10.3, SELS2.2). This is evaluated as described in items  (5),  (8) and  (9) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG7.8.R1
PREPARING FOR READING:  The teacher facilitates reading activities throughout the  theme “life in the 
universe and future”  from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise techniques and 
the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the theme in various 
forms and amounts as it is explained above  (in the vocabulary section) in terms of how it is taught and when 
it needs to be clarified. Various reading styles such as silent reading, jigsaw reading and speed reading are 
used during the pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases. The ultimate aim of reading practice 
is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend 
and talk about the current content and related issues in a meaningful way  (V3.2, LS1, CS3.3). Students are 
provided a new text (s) to practise their reading skills through the current theme. They look at the surrounding 
visual materials, the title of the text and other supportive elements to guess the topic of the new reading 
content and they make predictions to be checked after reading the text  (D1.1, SELS3.1,V3.3, LS4, CS2.2, 
CS2.11, CS2.16.2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_912 =====
912
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.8.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING:  Students read the new reading text carefully 
to check their predictions made in the preparation session at the beginning of the lesson  (SELS1.2, V3.4, 
LS1, CS2.8).  Then they read the text very quickly  (scanning) to check the main components and categories 
with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations that are provided by the 
teacher  (V3.3,LS4, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.6).  They compare the components they have found in the text with those 
written by the teacher on the smart board/whiteboard related to the sub-themes of “space technology; life 
in the future with robots”   (D3.6, V3.3, V11.1, LS2, LS5, CS2.7) . Students read the text very quickly to check 
that the main components correspond to the headings written by the teacher on the board and then they 
tick/circle/underline them on the list  (already provided by the teacher) at their desks  (V3.4, LS7, CS2.8) . 
The teacher could use different versions of the scanning activities as described in the “listening/watching- 
comprehension” section above. In this way, they can understand the text in general better with the help of 
scanning  (CS2.16.1).  They share the components with the whole class  (SELS2.1) and then they discuss the 
accuracy of the results as a whole class   (D2.3, D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.2, LS1, CS2.8). 
ENG7.8.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING: Students read the new text silently in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity 
as they have done in the vocabulary session earlier   (D3.2, SELS2.2,V4.1). During the reading session, they 
look out for new words whose meanings they do not know  (if there are any, other than the target words 
previously covered in the listening/watching-comprehension and vocabulary recognition sessions)  (CS2.6).  
They work on the new words in the same way as in the vocabulary sessions. Then they deal with the semantic 
meaning conveyed in the text through display questions, then semi-closed activities and then open-ended 
activities   (V3.3, V6.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.6). They deal with the meaning by using strategies from the closed 
to the open-ended range to understand the  t heme “life in the universe and future”  in terms of the sub-
themes of “space technology; life in the future with robots” mean from different perspectives to build their 
own understandings  (D3.6, D3.8, SELS3.1, CS2.13).  The teacher facilitates a number of activities to help 
the students improve their comprehension, synthesis and evaluation skills after applying the knowledge 
they have gained from the reading process  (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, CS2.3, CS2.17, CS2.20).  After this stage, 
they work on activities to connect their knowledge and skills they have acquired about the current content 
with CLIL  (history, maths, science, etc.) and cultural issues to be able to enrich their perspectives on the 
current theme  (D3.5, SELS3.2, V3.3, V3.4, V11.1, LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.13, CS2.14). In this way, they will have 
the opportunity to develop their knowledge and language competence through reading. They can have the 
opportunity to develop their cognitive, emotional, cultural, social, and creative skills through the process of 
reading  (SELS3.3, V7.2, CS2.20). 
ENG7.8.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING PROCESS: Students reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation 
to the whole reading-comprehension process  (SELS1.3).  They talk about them individually and then share 
them with the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1,V4.2, CS2.15). After the reflection and feedback 
session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas  (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, 
V4.3, V12.1, LS1). 
ENG7.8.W1.
PREPARATION FOR WRITING-EXPRESSION:  Students are facilitated throughout the theme with writing 
activities, from the first lesson to the last when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount of writing. At the beginning of the writing process, students recall their pre-existing 
knowledge about the current content to make a link between what they know and what they are going to 

===== PDF_PAGE_913 =====
913
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
write about  (D3.2, SELS1.1, CS2.12).  This includes examining all the audio/visual sources and elements 
provided for understanding the writing task  (V3.2,LS1, CS2.2). 
ENG7.8.W2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL : Students listen  (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the writing task they have been given  (CS2.2).  These are limited and short pieces of writing to see how the 
language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the written language, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “life in the universe and future”. 
Initially, they practise the language in a more controlled way, writing to repeat or simply explain what they 
have heard and seen and/ or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they 
try to understand how the language is used in the target content by examining the model/example writing 
carefully  (V3.4, LS2, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the 
knowledge they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in 
relation to current content in their later free writing tasks  (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, LS1). 
ENG7.8.W3.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WRITTEN CONTENT : After working on a sample/model writing task, students 
begin to produce/construct similar tasks of their own  (V16.1).  They participate in several writing activities 
individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class  (D2.3, SELS2.2,V4.1).  Their products could range from 
writing a word to a phrase, a clause to a full sentence, a group of sentences to a short paragraph, an essay to 
a short story. These writing activities will help students to produce and display meaningful written language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme as in others  (SELS2.1, LS1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.8.W4.
PRACTISING BY PRODUCING WRITTEN CONTENT: Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
essays, diaries/journals, blogs, scripts for plays, documentaries, films, etc. to express their ideas, thoughts, 
and feelings in relation to the current topic  (D1.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.20).  They take part in 
individual or collaborative projects to improve their writing skills together with social, cultural, cognitive, and 
affective aspects  (D1.4, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2). Within this variety, they can find the opportunities to 
show how they can use the language that they have learnt to describe and comment on the current content 
for developing new ideas about them in different genres of writing, according to their potential needs for 
expressing themselves and communication with others  (SELS3.2, SELS3.3,V3.3, V11.1, LS5, CS2.14, CS3.3). 
Storification and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further writing practice  
(D2.5,LS9). 
ENG7.8.W5.
PROCESS WRITING: Controlled writing of words, sentences and paragraphs turns to process writing with 
the support of the teacher’s and also peers’ feedback in the theme. This process is expanded and supported 
with additional activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, etc. to practise further by 
writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme in fun, 
enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9,CS2.13, CS2.14).  A. All 
the content is formed as contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests, 
and language level. Students improve their writing after reviewing the feedback they receive and this spiral, 
cyclical, and ongoing work becomes a progressive path for students  (D3.1, SELS1.2, V12.3, LS1, CS3.1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_914 =====
914
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.8.W6.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students communicate their ideas, thoughts 
and feelings about the the sub-themes of “space technology; life in the future with robots” through their 
writing tasks  (V3.3, V11.1, CS3.3). They can use AI-based technologies for various activities, by having access 
to authentic materials. They can also produce digital written materials and projects at school and at home 
in a variety of ways to interact and communicate with peers and/or other people inside and outside school 
by using the language including target words, language chunks, and the social language expressions for the 
relevant theme in their writing  (D3.3, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V11.1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.20). All writing activities 
can be evaluated as described in items  (3),  (4),  (5),  (9),  (10),  (11) and  (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the 
Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG7.8.W7.
REFLECTING THROUGH WRITING:  The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and 
feelings in relation to the whole writing-expression process  (SELS1.3)  and students talk about them 
individually and share them with the whole class  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3,SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15).  After the reflection 
and feedback session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas  (SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1,LS1). 
SPEAKING-EXPRESSION
Practising through speaking from controlled to communicative stages: The teacher facilitates speaking 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the last. Speaking activities support students’ 
learning and help them to produce meaningful language for personal expression and communication with 
others, by using the language including the target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions of the theme.  (V3.4, V4.5, LS1, LS5). 
ENG7.8.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING : In the beginning, students recall their background knowledge about the 
theme through listening/watching and/or reading and then they talk about it  (SELS1.1, CS2.12).  Students 
practise the target language items in a controlled way, by saying, repeating, explaining what they hear and 
see in the context, for instance, in the introductory digital story and the listening and reading sections in 
different contexts  (SELS3.2).  Then they can expand their language use and practice in each section by 
increasing the amount of speaking they do  (D1.3, V3.4, LS1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.8.S2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL: Students listen  (to)/watch and/or read some models of the 
speaking task they have been given  (CS2.2).  These are limited and short pieces of speaking to see how the 
language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the spoken language, after 
hearing them through listening activities in the theme. Initially, they practise the language in a more controlled 
way, repeating some utterances, simply explaining what they have heard and seen, and/or what they are 
asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to understand how the language is used 
in the target content by examining the speaking model/example carefully  (V3.3, V11.1, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.19, 
CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge they have gained throughout 
the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to the current theme in their 
later free speaking tasks  (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, V3.4, LS5). 

===== PDF_PAGE_915 =====
915
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG7.8.S3.
PRODUCTION OF MEANINGFUL AND ACCURATE CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons, the teacher 
prepares new contexts for the students in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading the language 
including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme “life in the universe and future”  
in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities  (SELS3.2, V7.2, LS9) . These newly created contents are 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. 
They participate in such speaking activities individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class  (D3.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.20). 
ENG7.8.S4.
CONSTRUCTING MEANINGFUL SPOKEN CONTENT:  Students produce various spoken content and their 
products could range from producing a simple utterance including a word to a phrase, a clause to a full 
sentence, a group of sentences to a short speech, a dialogue to a spoken presentation  (SELS3.3, V3.4, 
CS2.20). These speaking activities will help students to produce accurate and meaningful spoken language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme “life in the universe and future”  as in others  (D3.6, SELS2.1, CS2.13). 
ENG7.8.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Collaborative and communicative activities are 
designed and used to revise and consolidate the whole theme“life in the universe and future”  on the the sub-
themes of “space technology; life in the future with robots”  (V4.5, LS5, CS2.13, CS2.14). Storification, drama, 
and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further speaking practice throughout the 
theme  (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.1, V4.2, LS4, LS9). Students are encouraged to produce several spoken 
products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, short texts, presentations, etc. 
to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people inside and/or outside the school by using 
the language including the target words, language chunks, and social language expressions for the current 
theme  (SELS2.3, V3.4, V7.1, V7.2, LS1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for various activities, 
giving students access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and projects for 
speaking at school and at home through recordings  (D3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V7.3, V11.1, LS2).  All these 
speaking activities can be evaluated as described in items  (1),  (2),  (3),  (4),  (5),  (7),  (8),  (9),  (10), and  (11) in the 
section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG7.8.S6.
REFLECTING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students are encouraged to reflect individually or collaboratively in 
groups on their own individual learning  (SELS1.3) or on their collaborative learning in pairs, groups or as a 
whole class collaboratively  (D2.3, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  The activities will help and support students in these 
feedback and reflection sessions. Their feedback is shared with peers and the teacher and takes the form 
of interactive and ongoing feedback that can help their own improvement  (SELS1.2, SELS2.1) and also they 
contribute to the improvement of their peers in their learning processes  (V4.1, V4.3,V12.1, V12.3, LS1). 

===== PDF_PAGE_916 =====
916
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To engage in conversations about the space and the future, and to foster the students’ creativity 
and presentation skills in English by using the target vocabulary and the target grammatical items (Will - 
Simple Future).
Activity 1: Come and meet my Robot!
The teacher sets up 4 stations (eg. Station 1- Home Robots, Station 2- School Robots, Station 3- Robots in 
Space) around the classroom, each with a different focus about robots in the future and placing a large sheet 
of paper and markers at each station. Then she/he asks each station to draw a robot, name it and write how 
it will contribute to us according to their station topic. Each station is supposed to write at least two things. 
Then the students will rotate in groups to each station and get information about the robots and contribute 
ideas if they like. The teacher provides constructive feedback and highlights creative ideas.  Students reflect 
on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To engage in conversations about the space and the future, and to foster the students’ creativity 
and presentation skills in English by using the target vocabulary and the grammatical items (Will - Simple 
Future).
Activity 1: Come and meet my Robot!
The teacher sets up 4 stations (eg. Station 1- Home Robots, Station 2- School Robots, Station 3- Robots in 
Space) around the classroom, each with a different focus about robots in the future and places a large sheet 
of paper, markers and slips of paper giving some contribution ideas (e.g., help students learn new subjects, 
clean the house every day, build homes on Mars) at each station. Then she/he asks each station to draw a 
robot, name it and write how it will contribute to us according to their station topic. Each station is supposed 
to write at least two things. Then the students will rotate in groups to each station and get information about 
the robots and contribute ideas if they like. The teacher provides constructive feedback and highlights 
creative ideas. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_917 =====
917
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
YEAR 8 
 (LEVEL: A2.4) 
THEME 1: SCHOOL LIFE & EDUCATION
Sub-themes:  School events and celebrations (sports, 
music, drama); developing the environment; national 
days and celebrations
This theme is centred on the concept of “school life and education” and 
covers the sub-themes of “school events and celebrations (sports, music, 
drama); developing the environment; national days and celebrations”. These 
components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning process through the 
contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological 
features, and social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities 
are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are 
tailored to align with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and 
preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the 
knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively use English in their 
daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 14 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.4. Self-Efficacy, D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.1. Empathy, 
D2.2. Responsibility, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, D2.5. Playfulness,  D3.1. 
Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.4. Seeking the Truth, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning, 
D3.9. Doubting, D3.10. Critical Perspective
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V19. Patriotism, V20. 
Benevolence

===== PDF_PAGE_918 =====
918
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Atatürk’s Principles and History of Revolution, Physical Education 
and Sports, Visual Arts, Music, Counselling and Career Planning, Technology and 
Design
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering 
Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, 
CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. 
Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation 
Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.18. Argumentation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing 
Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.2. Problem 
Solving Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_919 =====
919
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 8 is structured based on inductive approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTSé
ENG.8.1.L1.  Students can prepare and get ready for listening (to)/watching about the current content 
on “school life and education with school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); 
developing the environment; national days and celebrations”.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience about the current theme and 
content to recall their background knowledge by investigating it carefully.
b) Students identify significant and necessary relationships and connections between their pre-
existing knowledge, their past experience and the clues to the current content by responding 
to meaningful questions about it (without speaking Turkish or using a translation).
c) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by using their pre-existing 
knowledge and past experience of the content.
d) Students make rational predictions about the current content by looking at the supplementary 
visual elements provided. 
ENG.8.1.L2.  Students can bring together the information in the current content on “school life and education 
with school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; 
national days and celebrations”.
a) Students identify the main topic of the current content in general by listening (to)/watching it 
as a whole in its context. 
b) Students recognise the significant details and basic components of the current content within 
the whole by listening (to) and watching the whole content carefully to notice them.
ENG.8.1.L3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “school life 
and education with school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the 
environment; national days and celebrations”.
a) Students check their initial predictions about the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between their self-predictions and the clues provided as visuals surrounding 
the content.
b) Students make significant and necessary classifications in the current content that affect the 
meaning of the generally perceived content.
c) Students make significant and necessary comparisons in the generally perceived current 
content to highlight differences between two or more different things by using visuals, ensuring 
clarity and meaning.
d) Students recognise significant branching, linear or spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content.
e) Students make essential inferences and deductions to understand the meaning of the 
generally perceived current content better.
f) Students strongly recognise the holistic meaning formed by the components, comparisons, 
classifications, and details related to the current content.
g) Students construct a detailed understanding of the meaning of the current content through 
prior classifications, comparisons, and inferences/deductions.
h) Students position, internalise and personalise current content in an individualised, age-
appropriate and level-appropriate way.

===== PDF_PAGE_920 =====
920
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.8.1.L4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to 
the listening (to)/watching process about the current content on “school life and education 
with school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; 
national days and celebrations” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or 
with others.
a) Students individually convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings 
that are critically reviewed in relation to the current listening (to)/watching contents and the 
process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current listening (to)/watching content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce new audio/visual products individually by revising their personal work after 
participating in reflective activities related to the listening (to)/watching process of the current 
content.
ENG.8.1.P1.  Students can select and use target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases, clauses, and sentences in utterances authentically, 
naturally, and accurately in the current content about “school life and education with school 
events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days 
and celebrations” to develop holistic and conscious pronunciation skills after recognising 
them in context. 
a) Students recognise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases and sentences in utterances within the current content by 
listening (to)/ watching it, first as a whole and then with pauses.
b) Students repeat utterances, including target sentences, clauses, phrases, and words with 
target theme-specific sounds by considering phonological aspects such as pronunciation and 
intonation accurately and naturally in the content several times as a whole class and then in 
groups and individually.
c) Students talk about the current content by taking part in small group conversations by paying 
attention to select and use accurate phonological aspects such as pronunciation, intonation, 
stress, and other features as they are understood.
d) Students reflect personally on their pronunciation and other target phonological aspects such 
as intonation after recording and listening to group conversations about the target content.
e) Students evaluate feedback from others and their personal feedback and reflection by 
listening to or watching the audio/visual content again to check for accuracy.
f) Students utilise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of utterances including target sounds of the current content, appropriately, effectively, 
accurately, naturally, automatically, and consciously when communicating with others in 
different contexts.
ENG.8.1.R1.  Students can prepare for reading the content on “school life and education with school events 
and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days and 
celebrations” efficiently and effectively.
a) Students recall and activate significant pre-existing knowledge and past experiences that can 
be related to the current theme and content through careful exploration. 
b) Students recognise significant relationships between pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to current content.
c) Students make strong preliminary predictions about the current content based on explored 
and recognised relationships.

===== PDF_PAGE_921 =====
921
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring and examining the 
audio-visual clues in relation to it.
ENG.8.1.R2.  Students can bring information together about the current content on “school life and education 
with school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; 
national days and celebrations” through skimming, scanning, and detailed reading.
a) Students skim the current content by looking very quickly and carefully at the surrounding 
visual materials to identify its general focus.
b)  Students scan the current content by reading it silently and quickly to find key and major 
components.
c) Students read the current content again silently and carefully to examine any significant 
semantic and structural details.
d) Students examine the semantic details in the content carefully to check the accuracy of their 
initial predictions.
ENG.8.1.R3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “school life 
and education with school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the 
environment; national days and celebrations”.
a) Students classify significant and necessary elements of the current content in a meaningful 
way.
b) Students compare significant and key elements of the current content with each other or with 
similar ones in a meaningful way.
c) Students recognise significant and basic spiral, causal, and logical relationships in the current 
content through careful examination and analysis.
d) Students make meaningful inferences from information in the current content by examining 
it critically.
e) Students internalise their meaningful inferences from information in the current content in an 
individualised way appropriate to their age and language level.
ENG.8.1.R4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related 
to the reading process about the current content on “school life and education with school 
events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days 
and celebrations” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content 
and process with others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
ENG.8.1.V1.  Students can select and use target vocabulary efficiently, effectively, and accurately, based 
on the current content about “school life and education with school events and celebrations 
(sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days and celebrations” after 
recognising them in context and developing their conscious and inductive vocabulary learning 
skills.
a) Students make predictions about the main topic of the current content by identifying “general 
contextual clues” from the visual, audio, and written preparation materials provided during the 
“listening/watching for gist” and/or reading for “skimming” sessions.

===== PDF_PAGE_922 =====
922
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students check the accuracy of the predictions related to the “general contextual clue” by 
listening to, watching, and/or reading the audio, visual, and/or written content in context.
c) Students search the target audio/visual, and/or written content by scanning to find key 
components of the theme.
d) Students listen/watch the content carefully and/or read it silently to identify and underline/
circle target unknown words.
e) Students separate target (key-active) words from the other (non-key-passive) words in the 
target content.
f) Students examine relevant target words, phrases, and expressions in the current content to 
understand how and where they are used.
g)  Students determine paragraph context clues to identify the topics of the parts/paragraphs 
containing unknown target words.
h)  Students discuss the meaning of the target words by finding indirect sentence context clues 
in the assigned sentences of the parts/paragraphs of the content.
i)  Students determine the correct meanings of the target words in the current content in pairs 
or groups by comparing the meanings/definitions proposed.
j) Students confirm the accuracy of the meanings/definitions of the target words in the current 
content by consulting with the teacher, the class and/or by using printed or digital dictionaries.
k)  Students make use of the target words of the current theme in a range of semantically 
associated contextual activities and tasks accurately, naturally, authentically, and 
appropriately.
l) Students make use of the target words of the current theme accurately, naturally, appropriately 
and effectively through careful selection when communicating with others.
ENG.8.1.G1.  Students can select and use target grammatical language items efficiently, effectively, and 
accurately, based on the current content about “school life and education with school events 
and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days and 
celebrations”, after recognising them in context and developing their conscious and inductive 
grammaring skills through consciousness-raising and discovery.
a) Students listen to, watch, and/or read the audio, visual, and written current content presented 
in context that introduces the general use of the target language structures in the current 
theme.
b) Students examine example sentences provided by the teacher or instructional materials 
including target grammatical items to see how the target grammatical structure(s) of the 
target theme is/are used to construct a meaning or contribute to meaning.
c) Students analyse current audio, visual, and/or written content presented in context to identify 
sentences similar to those provided as examples.
d) Students find the commonalities between the sentences identified and those exemplified by 
the teacher or materials through careful comparison in pairs and/or groups.
e) Students discover the characteristics of the commonalities in the sentences in the current 
content by discussing them in pairs or groups as an awareness/consciousness-raising activity.
f) Students formulate rule(s) about the same/target grammar structure(s) of the current theme 
based on their observations and discussions in pairs or groups.
g) Students engage in contextual activities on the use of target grammatical structures 
(grammaring) of the current theme to explain and justify the grammar rule(s) they have 
discovered.
h) Students practise to consolidate their understanding of the target grammar that they 
discovered by selecting accurate and meaningful items in meaningful and contextualised 
activities.

===== PDF_PAGE_923 =====
923
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
i) Students produce accurate and unique verbal or written content by using target grammar 
consciously and in a natural way, without thinking about the rules.
j) Students produce new spoken/written content by using the target grammatical structures 
efficiently, authentically, automatically, and naturally in context when communicating with 
others without thinking about rules.
ENG.8.1.W1.  Students can prepare for writing efficiently and accurately based on the current content 
about “school life and education with school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); 
developing the environment; national days and celebrations”.
a) Students relate pre-existing knowledge and experiences from initial listening, watching, and 
reading processes to current content by examining and activating them.
b) Students understand what the current writing task requires in terms of content and purpose in 
relation to the current content accurately by applying pre-existing knowledge and experiences, 
following guided instructions.
ENG.8.1.W2.  Students can analyse and understand a provided model to guide them in producing similar 
writing tasks related to the content on “school life and education with school events 
and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days and 
celebrations”.
a) Students grasp the significant and basic components of the content in the model/sample 
provided for the assigned writing task, including word selection and use, grammar selection 
and use, and other details such as type, style, and meaning as required.
ENG.8.1.W3.  Students can construct new written content on “school life and education with school events 
and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days and 
celebrations” based on their understanding of the model(s) provided.
a) Students share their ideas and thoughts by brainstorming through collaborative discussion to 
generate ideas for the new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current 
theme.
b) Students plan how the knowledge and ideas generated during the brainstorming session can 
be applied to their new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current theme.
c) Students conduct preliminary research relevant to the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) 
writing task on the current content, considering the type of writing, age appropriateness, and 
language level.
d) Students produce a well-organised and detailed draft relevant to the (prepared and/or 
unprepared) type of writing and appropriate for the age and language level.
e) Students organise and develop contextual materials relevant to the type of the assigned task 
(prepared and/or unprepared) and appropriate to age and language level.
f) Students modify the content they produce for the assigned writing task in a coherent and 
meaningful way, consistent with the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) type of writing, 
and appropriate to the age and language level.
ENG.8.1.W4.  Students can practise producing written content based on the current theme “school life 
and education with school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the 
environment; national days and celebrations”.
a) Students present relevant supportive materials appropriate to the assigned (prepared and/
or unprepared) writing task, considering the type of writing and appropriate to the age and 
language level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and strategies for the assigned (prepared 
and/or unprepared) writing task, considering its writing type and appropriate to their age and 
language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_924 =====
924
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students use target words and grammatical language structures accurately and appropriately 
in their writing tasks, by selecting necessary and appropriate ones in line with the assigned 
type of writing and appropriate to the age and language level.
d) Students express their messages about the current content clearly to the reader in the 
assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task.
ENG.8.1.W5.  Students can engage in the process of writing related to the content on “school life and 
education with school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the 
environment; national days and celebrations”.
a) Students review the feedback from the teacher and/or peers critically on their prepared and/
or unprepared writing task(s).
b) Students revise to reorganise the written content of their prepared and/or unprepared task 
based on the feedback received from the teacher and/or peers.
c) Students refine and develop their written content produced for their prepared/unprepared 
writing task through the iterative feedback process.
ENG.8.1.W6.  Students can reconstruct their writing about the current theme on “school life and education 
with school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; 
national days and celebrations” to communicate effectively about it.
a) Students adapt and use individually internalised information in current or similar content by 
selecting and reorganising it meaningfully in written form as necessary when communicating 
with other people in different contexts.
b) Students exchange information and ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge and content with others.
ENG.8.1.W7.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the 
writing process about the current content on “school life and education with school events 
and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days and 
celebrations” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings they review 
critically in relation to their current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current writing-expression content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce their new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current writing-expression content and process.
ENG.8.1.S1.  Students can prepare themselves to speak meaningfully, fluently, and efficiently about the 
current content on “school life and education with school events and celebrations (sports, 
music, drama); developing the environment; national days and celebrations”.
a) Students relate current content by analysing pre-existing knowledge and experiences from 
earlier listening, watching, and reading sessions to associate them with the current content.
ENG.8.1.S2.  Students can analyse and understand the model content related to “school life and education 
with school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; 
national days and celebrations” to support the production of spoken language.
a) Students grasp what the provided model/example is about with the help of audio, visual, and/
or written elements after listening, watching, and/or reading the current content.
ENG.8.1.S3.  Students can produce meaningful and accurate spoken content related to the current theme 
on “school life and education with school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); 
developing the environment; national days and celebrations”.

===== PDF_PAGE_925 =====
925
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students recognise which form and type of spoken content is expected and assigned based on 
the model/example about the current theme for both prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations through careful examination.
b) Students conduct preliminary research on the expected and assigned content to be produced 
for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students develop a draft outline in accordance with the assigned prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations as presented in the model/example, appropriate to the age and language 
level based on the current theme.
d) Students organise supplementary audio-visual materials in accordance with the assigned 
task as presented in the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations 
and appropriate to their age and language level. 
e) Students organise information related to the current content to be presented, appropriate to 
the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
f) Students critically review their prepared presentation content for accuracy, coherence, and 
appropriateness to audience and context in prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.8.1.S4.  Students can construct meaningful spoken content about “school life and education with 
school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national 
days and celebrations” through efficient and meaningful practice.
a) Students make spoken content clear and understandable to listeners by selecting and using 
style and form appropriate to age and language level in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
b) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using materials appropriate to the 
context, age, language level, style, and type of discourse, similar to those presented in the 
model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using target vocabulary and language 
structures similar and/or appropriate to those presented in the model/example considering 
their age, language level, context, style, and type of discourse for prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations.
d) Students convey relevant explicit, implicit, and/or complex messages related to the current 
content clearly in context to the listeners by using appropriate material and body language in 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
e) Students convey their messages about the current content clearly to the listeners by 
incorporating all the necessary semantic elements in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
ENG.8.1.S5.  Students can reconstruct the information about “school life and education with school events 
and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days and 
celebrations” when communicating with others.
a) Students use the same or similar information presented in the current content in verbal or 
written forms in different contexts by reorganising it meaningfully, accurately, effectively, 
efficiently, functionally, and individually as required.
b) Students engage in verbal and/or written communication by sharing the reconstructed 
meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.8.1.S6.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the 
speaking process about the current content on “school life and education with school events 
and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days and 
celebrations” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_926 =====
926
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students reveal their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they review critically 
in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
critically review in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process with 
others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_927 =====
927
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
SCHOOL LIFE & EDUCATION
Sub-themes: school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; “national 
days and celebrations” 
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama):
Nouns: A goal, an instructor, a musician, a script, a performance, a costume, a curtain, an event, a stage.
Verbs: To perform, to drop, to hit, to throw (a ball), to catch (a ball), to arrange, to set (the stage), to participate, 
to decorate, to announce, to achieve.
Adjectives: Able, classical, extreme, musical, deep, fit, competitive, determined, talented, entertaining, 
powerful.
Adverbs: Actually.
Vocabulary for developing the environment:
Nouns: The environment, respect, responsibility, safety, communication, friendship, achievement, a 
volunteer, percent.
Verbs: To care, to collect, to develop, to expect, to plant, to behave, to encourage, to participate, to respect, 
to care (for), to protect.
Adjectives: Responsible.
Adverbs: Responsibly.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Simple Present Tense versus Present Progressive Tense: (The instructor announces the names of 
the performers every year during the festival. The students are decorating the hall for the upcoming drama 
performance).
-Obligation with must: (You must respect the environment and plant trees to keep the area clean).
-Prohibition with mustn’t: (Students mustn’t drop litter during school celebrations).
- “Must” vs have to: (I must eat something. I have to pass an English test). 
- “Can” to ask for permission: (Can I leave now?)
- “Can” for possibility: (Volunteers can plant trees to protect the environment.) 
-Question tags for modals: (You must care for the environment, mustn’t you? We can arrange the performance 
for next week, can’t we?)
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of the Simple Present Tense vs Present Progressive Tense: Distinguishing regular actions, habits, 
general truths, permanent situations, and actions happening at the moment of speaking, and temporary 
activities.
-Use of “must” (obligation): Expressing necessity or duty.

===== PDF_PAGE_928 =====
928
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
-Use of “mustn’t” (prohibition): Expressing prohibition or restrictions.
-Use of “must” vs “have to”: Expressing strong internal obligation and expressing external obligation.
-Use of “can” (permission): Requesting permission.
-Use of “can” (possibility): Expressing ability or possibility.
Target Social Language in Use:
Our new project will be world class!
Think outside the box to come up with a creative idea!
It’s hard to keep my head above the water with all these exams!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
 Intonation of positive statements
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “school life and education” and its components such as “school events and 
celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days and celebrations” is present 
in almost all languages. People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with 
them and transfer it to their new language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know 
what “school life and education” and its components such as “school events and celebrations (sports, music, 
drama); developing the environment; national days and celebrations” means but will not know how to say 
them in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing 
knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more 
easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts:
School events, celebrations (sports, music, drama), school events and celebrations, the environment, 
developing the environment, national days, celebrations, national days and celebrations.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will work in teams to plan and write the proposal for a new event 
or celebration for their school that combines creativity and environmental awareness. They can choose 
from categories such as sports, music, or drama and integrate a theme focused on developing the school 
environment. For example, they might propose a “Green Drama Festival” where performances centre around 
environmental protection or a “Sustainable Sports Day” with eco-friendly practices like recycling stations and 
tree planting. Students will prepare a presentation outlining their event’s purpose, schedule, and expected 
outcomes, emphasising how it fosters school spirit and contributes to a better environment. The assignment 
will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “school life and education” and its components such 
as “school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days and 
celebrations”. As they are lower secondary school students in year 8 (eight), they can know what “school 
life and education” and its components such as “school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); 
developing the environment; national days and celebrations” mean in their own language as it is known that 
almost all people who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) 
with them and transfer it to their new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say 
these things in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, 
this existing knowledge in their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more 
easily in a foreign language, in this case English.

===== PDF_PAGE_929 =====
929
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
As they are students in year 8 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “school 
life and education” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or years. 
These grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning of the 
year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current 
theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about the “school life and education” and its components such as “school events and celebrations 
(sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days and celebrations”. Recalling and practising 
with relevant vocabulary and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would 
be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “school life and 
education”. Their knowledge of the days of the week and holidays will help them learn and practise important 
national holidays such as “the Republic Day of Türkiye”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise 
all vocabulary and grammatical items from the previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in 
English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they 
remember and how much they are able to understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks 
to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to 
revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their 
performance can be evaluated by rubrics throughout these practices).
Establishing Links
Students are asked to recall the concept of “school life and education” by remembering their pre-existing 
background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with 
the current activities in the theme in English without saying anything in Turkish and without translating 
anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English. To remind them 
of their pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, many materials 
such as “a scene from a short film, a passage from a book, a part from a personal diary (journal),  a part of a 
story, a collection of pictures, a part of an animation, a poster, an excerpt from a video etc.” related to this 
content can be shared with the class before the main teaching/learning flow begins. The materials about 
the current concept would give a general idea of the theme. Students are work on the material according to 
the instructions and try to grasp it. The teacher tries to check if they have an idea about the topic of the new 
theme with several activities. When they have finished working on them, the teacher asks them in English 
if they have understood what has been in the material. She/He asks them to write a related words that they 
already know (learnt in previous years) in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/ box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways for checking their comprehension could be tried by the teacher.
They wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the theme, the digital 
introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme “school life and education”  in the classroom, to prepare the students 
emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as 
an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their 
well-being (D1.5, V12.1, V13.4).This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/
singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote, 
a very short story, watching a pantomime/online story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current 
theme and does not require any knowledge of the current theme in English (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.4, V7.2, 
V13.2, LS4).That is only for relaxation and preparation for the lesson.

===== PDF_PAGE_930 =====
930
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills are used in an integrated way around a central topic “school life and education” and the sub-
themes of “school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days 
and celebrations”, allowing students to build background knowledge through receptive skills before moving 
on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and 
are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive 
to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely linked way that means 
each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development and to increase communicative 
competence. The theme “school life and education” is characterised by a balanced integration of all the 
skills, where students engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) 
and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their grammar, 
vocabulary and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG8.1.L1.
PREPARATION FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students prepare to access the introduction to the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to remember what they have done during the “establishing links” 
session for recalling background knowledge about the related concept of “school life and education”, where 
they watched a short film scene prepared for that section (which is not a part of the introductory digital 
story of the theme) (D3.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4) . They remember what they already know about “school life 
and education” to prepare themselves to work on guessing the topic of the current theme “school life and 
education with school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national 
days and celebrations” (V7.2, V13.2, V14.3, V19.1, LS1, LS5). They prepare to access the main materials of 
the theme for having connections by making predictions based on the short film in the “establishing links” 
session (D3.8, V3.3, LS1, LS4).
ENG8.1. L2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER BY LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students collect “general context clues” to 
understand the whole content by looking at visual clues before listening (to)/watching. The teacher asks the 
students to look at any visual material such as pictures, posters, and realia related to the current content to 
identify the topic of the content and to answer the question “What is the whole content about?” (D3.6, V7.2, 
V13.2, V14.3, V19.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.2) .They can realise that there might be different elements related 
to this concept (D2.1, V4.5).The teacher asks them to look at the visuals quickly to make predictions about 
the topic of the whole theme by using the “listening (to)/watching for gist” strategy before listening/watching 
the main visual material of the theme, which is the introductory digital story (D3.8, V4.5, LS1, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.11).The teacher asks the students to read the title of the theme and asks them to brainstorm by thinking 
about which words they already know and which words come to mind in connection with the title (D3.4, LS2, 
CS2.12, CS2.16.2). She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new/target words they do not know 
at this stage of the lesson. She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity to guess the general 
topic/theme of the context by using the words they already know and that there will be time to work on the 
new words of the current content later (D1.4, V12.2). At this stage, some guessing games can be played to 
guess the main topic of the current content/theme by using the clues from the additional visuals such as 
pictures, posters, etc. related to the content, prepared and produced by the teacher, by using web 2.0 tools 
(D2.5, D3.3, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG8.1. L3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  Students identify and recognise the topic of the 
current theme by listening (to)/watching the introductory digital story that provides a context for the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen (to)/watch the introductory digital story to recognise the 
topic of the theme in general (This is a kind of preparation to work on the target key vocabulary in the later 

===== PDF_PAGE_931 =====
931
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
stages of the lesson(s) (D3.2, V3.4).The teacher asks the students to recall the work done with visuals (the 
scene from a short film) in the “establishing links” session about the current context shown earlier during the 
listening (to)/ watching session (D3.2, LS2). Students watch the digital introductory story and consolidate 
the identification of the target theme as a whole (CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that 
the students can hear/ see the context as a whole and understand the theme holistically (D3.1, V7.2, V13.2, 
V14.3, V19.1, LS2, LS4, LS5).
MAKING MEANING THROUGH THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE THEME BY LISTENING/W ATCHING:  
Students find and identify the main components of the current content by listening (to)/watching the 
context quickly through scanning. The teacher organises a scanning activity to find out the components as 
the basic and most important details of the current content through the introductory digital story to help 
students learn and know more about the current theme. She/He asks the students to listen and watch the 
story again without stopping, by scanning/looking for any relevant words or concepts that are heard in the 
story (D3.6, V3.4, LS2, LS4, LS7).  The teacher hands out a sheet to the students on which there is a list of 
words/phrases, etc. to tick, circle or underline. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard through 
watching the story very quickly without stopping. The teacher could apply different versions of scanning 
activities such as finding important elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which 
elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, LS1, CS2.4) . In this 
way, they will be able to understand the story in general through the main elements and components by 
eliminating the irrelevant ones. Students share with the whole class the words and components they have 
found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the teacher to them (D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.4). Then they 
discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class (SELS2.2, CS2.8). This is evaluated as described in 
items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After having 
watched the introductory digital story, the teacher places five headings on the smart board/whiteboard/
blackboard which are on the target vocabulary list of the related theme as clues to the components of the 
current theme (D3.7, V7.2, V13.2, V14.3, V19.1, LS5). She/He places a corresponding picture next to each 
component and writes the name of each heading. She/He guides students to understand the heading of 
each category with the help of pictures. The teacher asks the students to work with the words they already 
know during this phase of the lesson (SELS1.2). Students work on these categories with the help of the 
scenes from the introductory digital story (D3.6, LS2, LS4).  The teacher reads the headings aloud a few 
times by pointing to the corresponding pictures on the board and the students repeat them. Then the 
students say the headings all together. For working on the sub-themes of “school events and celebrations 
(sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days and celebrations” further, the teacher 
asks volunteers to go to the board and choose the picture (already provided by the teacher) to stick/pin/ 
drag it on the white/black board or the smart board (if the teacher asks) (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.2, V3.4, 
V20.4, LS2, LS4). Then, they say the headings (components) together as a whole class. In this way, the main 
components of the theme “school life and education” are introduced to the students in English (LS5). At this 
stage, the meanings of the target words are not studied, but the categorisation of the basic components 
contributes to their recognition of the concept in general. The teacher could ask the students to decide 
which words in the introductory digital story they do not know and to note them while reading the text later 
in the reading session (D1.2, D1.6, D3.8, SELS1.1, V3.4). This could be evaluated as described in items (1), (2), 
(3), (6) (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. All this 
work helps them understand the main categories through classifications and also the inferences they make 
while listening to and watching the introductory digital story and/or examining the picture related to the 
content. In this way, they recognise and comprehend the main concept as a whole through categorisation, 
comparison, and inference (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5, V3.3, LS2, LS4, LS7).
ENG8.1.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS: Students check the accuracy of their prior guesses, 
reflect on their ideas and feelings about the listening/watching session, and give feedback to each other. 
After the students listen (to)/watch the introductory digital story to find the main components of the theme, 

===== PDF_PAGE_932 =====
932
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
the teacher asks them whether their guesses they made during the “establishing links” session, looking at 
visuals session, and their first listening (to)/watching session have been correct (D3.8, V4.2, V4.3, LS2, LS4). 
As they have already seen a scene from a short film created about the concept of the current theme, during 
the “establishing links” session earlier, and looked at some supplementary visuals (pictures, the title of the 
theme) and also they saw the picture related to the introductory digital story they can easily answer what the 
current theme is about and that their guesses were correct (D3.4, V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8).The teacher 
asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole listening (to)/
watching process and students talk about them individually (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole class 
(D2.3, SELS.2.1, V4.2). After the reflection and feedback session, they talk again about the components of 
the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their ideas (SELS2.2, V4.2, V10.3).
ENG8.1.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Students recognise the pronunciation and other phonological 
aspects of target utterances, including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen (to)/watch an extract from the introductory digital story as 
the main context for noticing the target phonological elements (LS1, LS2, LS4).  She/He asks them to pay 
attention to the target pronunciation and/or other phonological aspects in the current content. The teacher 
asks them to notice how the target phonological aspects are used in context. Starting with the extract from 
the digital story, students go on with other contextual examples and activities to hear and understand the 
use of target elements in context (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION (AND OTHER PHONOLOGICAL ASPECTS):  Students 
select and use accurate, natural, and authentic target pronunciation and other phonological aspects of the 
target utterances including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme “school 
life and education”. After recognition activities, students repeat the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme aloud a few times as a whole class with accurate 
and natural pronunciation and other phonological aspects after listening (to)/watching the recordings that 
the teacher has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes or some other AI-based technologies 
(D3.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2).To help the students pronounce the target utterances including sentences, clauses, 
phrases, words, and sounds accurately, the teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as 
showing the target utterance to the students and they say it or letting them listen to the recording, then 
turning off the recording randomly and students say the utterances they hear from the recording (D3.2, 
D3.7, D2.3). Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one 
out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound exercises by getting help from 
AI technologies (D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2, LS4) . Along with the target utterances, the target 
sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are also practised in the same ways. This 
is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) as described in the section1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7).
FURTHER PRACTICE OF THE TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Students practise pronunciation with further 
activities for practice, consolidation, feedback and reflection. The teacher could use tape recording and 
feedback techniques. Students read aloud and record a text with the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme   provided by the teacher, at home (D1.2, D1.6, 
D2.3, SELS3.1, V4.1, V5.1, LS2, LS5).  They bring their recording(s) to school. First, they listen to the correct 
pronunciation of the text, provided by the teacher, in class. Then they listen to the recordings of individual 
students. During or after listening to the texts recorded by the students at home, the students give self-
feedback or peer feedback on the pronunciation of the words in the recordings (D2.4, D3.6, SELS1.3, 
SELS2.2, V4.1, V12.1, V14.1, LS1, LS5). If available, a different version of the recording technique could be 
applied in the class. The teacher asks the students to discuss, say/talk about something, which they already 
know, related to the theme. Groups take turns to talk and the rest of the class listens (D2.3, D2.4, SELS2.2). 

===== PDF_PAGE_933 =====
933
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
During this session, the teacher records their discussions. After each group’s performance, the class listens 
to the recording for pronunciation and everyone gives feedback on it, including the individual students who 
have spoken during the discussion (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS1).  The teacher can get 
help from AI-based technologies for these activities if available. Students’ performances are evaluated as 
explained in items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
pronunciation process and students talk about them individually (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole 
class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS2, CS2.15). After the reflection and feedback 
session, they talk again about the components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their 
ideas (SELS1.2, V3.3, V6.2, V10.3, LS1, LS2).
ENG8.1. V1
PREPARATION FOR THE WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To scan for finding the main components of 
the theme “school life and education”, the teacher asks the students to listen to and watch the introductory 
digital story to remember the topic of content mentioned in the previous listening/watching sessions. 
The teacher also asks them to check their predictions made in the first listening/watching session at the 
beginning of the lessons on the current theme once more again (D3.8, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS7).
Then the teacher asks the students to read the relevant parts of the written version of the introductory 
digital story provided by the teacher by scanning (reading very quickly) to check the main components 
and categories with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations with the 
headings that the teacher has previously written on the smart board/white board/blackboard in relation to 
the main components of the theme “school life and education” (D3.7, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.4, CS2.8). Students read the written extract from the story very quickly to check the main components 
corresponding to the headings that the teacher has written on the board and then they tick/circle/underline 
them on the list (already provided by the teacher) at their seats (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4). The teacher could apply 
different versions of scanning activities such as finding important components, categories, and elements on 
a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever 
she/he likes (LS1, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.8).  In this way, they can understand the story in general better with the 
help of reading this time after the listening/watching sessions held earlier through the main elements and 
components by eliminating the irrelevant ones (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, V3.4, LS1, LS2, CS2.16.1) . Students share 
with the whole class the components they have found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the 
teacher to them (D2.3, SELS2.1). Then they discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class (D2.4, D3.6, 
D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, V16.3, LS1, CS2.8).
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  To read for the details for finding 
the new target vocabulary the teacher asks the students to read the written version of the introductory 
digital story (or another written text for working on the target vocabulary) in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity 
(D3.2, SELS2.2). One peer reads the first half of the story/text and the second peer reads the other half 
silently in a given time (V3.4, V4.1, V9.2, LS1, CS2.6). The teacher asks them to look out for new words whose 
meanings they do not know during this silent and detailed reading and asks them to look out for new (target) 
words they have previously noted during the listening/watching sessions (D1.2, D1.6, D3.6, D3.8, V3.3, V16.1, 
LS7). They are then asked to share these words with their peers without discussing their meanings in the 
text (D2.4, D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V6.2).  The teacher starts working on the new (target) words here. In this 
way, they have a detailed reading, understand the story better, and find the new (target) words that they do 
not know to work on.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To separate key (active) and non-key (passive) target vocabulary 
in context: To check whether the students know any of the target key vocabulary about the content, the 
teacher asks them to say the new words whose meaning they do not know and which they have noticed 
and noted during their silent jigsaw reading session and the students do that (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, D3.2, D3.8, 

===== PDF_PAGE_934 =====
934
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
V3.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4).  When they say the words, the teacher writes them on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard by putting them on two lists. She/He writes the key (active) target words on one list and the 
non-key (passive) target words on the other list (that she/he has already decided on earlier when planning 
the lesson). She/He quickly covers the non-key words with examples, pictures, question-answers, however, 
spends more time on the key target words as described below (D3.2, D3.6, V1.2, V3.4, LS2, LS4).
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY:  To find “part/paragraph context clues” in the parts/paragraphs 
of the story (context): The teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again, paying 
attention to which part of the story the unknown words that they do not know are in the utterances (D3.2, 
D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4). She/He wants to introduce the meanings of the target key (active) vocabulary 
related to the theme that the students do not know part by part. Then she/he asks them to read the first 
part/paragraph in the written version of the story (or similar text) where the unknown words (active key 
target vocabulary) appear (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS5, LS7, CS2.8). Then she/he asks them whether they 
understand the meaning of the part/paragraph (D3.8, SELS3.1). She/He asks them to discuss the meaning of 
the part/paragraph in pairs in general without knowing the meaning of each new target word and asks what 
helps them understand the meaning of the part/paragraph (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, LS1, LS7). Students discuss 
the meaning of the part/paragraph in pairs (D3.10, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.18) and report back to the class. The 
teacher takes notes on the board and writes what the part/paragraph is about in one word/clause/sentence 
in the story (V6.2, LS1, LS5, CS2.16.1).  As each part/ paragraph covers a different but related piece of the 
whole topic, they realise that each part/paragraph contains new target words about a specific part of the 
whole theme. This helps them think about what each new target word in each part/paragraph could be about 
(D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, CS2.16.1). These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), and (8) 
in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To find “sentence clues”/ “the indirect context clues” for the target 
key (active) words in the sentences in context: The teacher helps the students deal with each target key 
word by looking around these words in the sentences for collecting clues which can help them understand 
the meaning of these unknown target words. Starting from the first unknown target (key) word, students 
are asked to look at the words around the target (key) words (D3.2, D3.6, D3.8, D3.9, D3.10, SELS3.1, LS1, 
S2.1,CS2.16.3).These clues could be linking words, adjectives, adverbs, determiners, suffixes, prefixes, 
time expressions that can help them understand the meaning of the unknown target word (but they do not 
talk about the terminology and parts of speeches, instead they talk about the meanings and functions of 
these supportive surrounding words). The teacher asks students to work in pairs to go through and list the 
“indirect clues” for each word (D3.5, D3.7, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, CS2.7, CS2.17).  When they finish working in 
pairs, the teacher goes through each word with the whole class and listens to what clues they have found 
to understand the meaning of the unknown target (key) word in the sentences (SELS3.1, V4.1, LS7). This is 
evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION AND SELECTION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To practise with the target words: To practise 
with the target vocabulary that the students work on through “sentence clues/indirect context clues”, the 
teacher checks their understanding again by showing them some realia that she/he has already provided 
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, LS5, CS2.5). The teacher shows them to the students and asks them to think about what 
they are and share them with their peers and then they check the answers with the whole class (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.19).Then the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again and 
shows the corresponding pictures to the students when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
story, without stopping the video while they are watching the story (LS2, LS4). When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the realia/visual elements, etc. about the content and asks in the form of two 
options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that they already know (D3.6, LS5, CS2.7, CS3.1).
As they have studied the words through the “part/paragraph and sentences clues” in reading the text earlier, 
the students can choose the correct option when they hear the words for the related theme and they answer 

===== PDF_PAGE_935 =====
935
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
them after talking about them in pairs (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, V6.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1).In this way they can 
further practise the meaning of the target words. These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), 
(6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section1.2 Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Further vocabulary practice through dialogical work: The 
teacher shows the story again, and from the beginning, whenever a target vocabulary item is mentioned 
in the story, the teacher stops the video and asks questions (or lets the students ask and answer each 
other). In this way, they are engaged in various dialogues and use the target words in these dialogues (D2.3, 
D3.8, SELS2.1, V4.1, V6.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.8) . So, they revise and practise the meanings of the target (key) 
vocabulary of the theme “school life and education”. This kind of technique could be applied with different 
and enjoyable activities according to the preference of the teacher. These activities are conducted in the 
form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (2) and (6) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Further activities and games are played at this 
stage to reinforce the meaning of the target words by using several materials including AI-based and web 
2.0 materials (D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4). They can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard 
if there is a problem with technology (LS4). These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), 
(7), (8) and (9) in the section in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Consolidation of the target vocabulary: To further practise 
the target vocabulary, the teacher can prepare an activity with images/pictures of target vocabulary using 
the web 2.0 tools. She/He mixes these images/pictures for the target vocabulary items and puts them in a 
raffle programme by using a web 2.0 tools or a real box in the classroom. She/He asks the students to take 
turns to go to the white/black board and to draw a picture related to the target components of the current 
theme (D2.3, SELS1.2). Then students say several things about the items in the picture (D1.5, D2.3, V3.4, 
LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.20). The teacher asks the students in their seats to take notes while the student at the 
white/black board talks about the picture she/he has drawn and to give feedback by raising yes/no cards, or 
correcting if there are mistakes, etc., and also repeat the sentences after him/her (D3.9, D3.10, SELS2.2, 
V3.4, CS3.3).When the student at the white/black board finishes, the teacher asks her/him to put the picture 
under the right category that she/he has previously placed on the white/black board earlier. In this way, 
images/pictures that are relevant to the concepts of the target theme will be revised and consolidated once 
again through categorisation (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5). The teacher asks the students to write a definition or an 
example sentence in their personal dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling and definitions (D1.2, D1.6, D3.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V6.2, CS2.20).  
Students’ learning can be checked and evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. When the vocabulary session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the process. Students 
reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the whole class (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.1, SELS1.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  They also give feedback to each other (D2.1, D2.4, V6.1, 
V9.2, V10.3).
ENG8.1. G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  Consciousness raising- 
discovery for the use of target language structures in inductive learning process: The teacher writes 
some sentences on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to read the sentences. Then 
she/he asks them to watch the introductory digital story again to draw their attention to the use of target 
grammatical structures of the theme “school life and education” (D3.2, LS7). The introductory digital story 
is replayed so that the students can notice the use of language with the target grammar structures (LS2). 
While watching the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the language with the 
target grammatical structures is used. When the students finish watching the introductory digital story 
again, the teacher asks the students to read and examine the example sentences carefully (D3.2, D3.6, 

===== PDF_PAGE_936 =====
936
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
LS7, CS2.2, CS2.6, CS3.2). Then she/he asks the students to work in pairs and find similar sentences with 
the target grammar structure(s) in the theme to those written by her/him on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard (SELS2.2, V3.4, CS2.7).  The students look at the written version of the story and find similar 
sentences to those given by the teacher as examples (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.7).  The teacher then asks 
the students to discuss and list the common features in these sentences and what kind of things are used 
repeatedly and why they think they are used in that way (D3.1, D3.6, D3.10, SELS3.1, V3.3, V4.2, CS2.4, 
CS3.3).Students examine the teacher’s example sentences, find the similar sentences in the written version 
of the story and discuss them by making a list of similarities and repeated commonalities (D3.6, SELS3.2, 
V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.7). The teacher asks the pairs to say what they have found (D2.3, CS2.10). 
As the pairs say what they have found, the teacher writes them on the board and gives the class time to 
look at them and think about them (D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.3, CS2.10, CS2.16.1, CS3.3).  Then the teacher 
hands out a piece of paper and asks the students to make a rule about what they have noticed regarding 
the target structures. Students create a rule about the use of target grammatical structures of the theme 
by working in pairs and they read it to the class and give each other feedback on the rules (D3.1, SELS2.2, 
SELS3.3, V3.3, LS1, CS2.9, CS2.16.1). The teacher shows a sentence that explains the rule correctly and asks 
the students to check if their rules are correct or the teacher gives a table in which the rule for the language 
with the target grammatical structure is incomplete. She/He asks the students to complete it by working 
in pairs (D3.1, SELS2.2, V4.2). Then they check the rule as the whole class and reflect on their experiences 
on how and how much they have learnt (D2.4, SELS1.1, SELS1.3, V6.1, V10.3, LS1, CS2.15) . This process is 
applied again for the other target grammatical structures in the theme if there are any. These activities are 
evaluated as described in items (5), (8) and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS IN CONTEXT:  Students practise the use of the 
language including the target grammatical structures: The teacher asks the students to work on grammar 
tasks she/he assigns (D2.2, D2.3, V3.3, V3.4, CS2.13) . These tasks could be the ones that the teacher 
provides. The teacher shows some other contents in the form of a dialogue, a short paragraph, a short story, 
etc. with sentences including the target grammar structures and asks the students to find the sentences 
with the target grammatical structures in them and asks if they understand them easily (D3.2, D3.7, D3.10, 
CS2.13, CS2.20, CS3.3).  She/He facilitates some oral or written activities and exercises for the students 
to further practise the target grammatical structures in context in pairs or groups (SELS2.2). She/He also 
facilitates more fun activities and games in which students talk, act out, mime, write, etc. with pen and 
paper, digital, AI-based, etc. materials and contexts so that they can practise and consolidate the target 
grammatical structures by selecting and using them accurately, efficiently, and naturally in context (D2.5, 
D3.2, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, V4.4, LS2, CS2.13). They engage in several dialogic activities in which they share 
information, ideas and thoughts for communicating with their classmates. They exchange information and 
ideas to others by using target grammatical content (D3.5, SELS2.2, V3.4).  When the session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the grammar discovery and 
use process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.3, V6.1, LS6, CS2.15). They also give feedback to each other (D2.1, D2.4, 
V4.2, V10.3, SELS2.2). This is evaluated as described in items (5), (8) and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG8.1.R1
PREPARING FOR READING: The teacher facilitates reading activities throughout the theme “school life and 
education” from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the theme in various forms 
and amounts as it is explained above (in the vocabulary section) in terms of how it is taught and when it 
needs to be clarified. Various reading styles such as silent reading, jigsaw reading and speed reading are 
used during the pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases. The ultimate aim of reading practice 
is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend 

===== PDF_PAGE_937 =====
937
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
and talk about the current content and related issues in a meaningful way (V3.2, LS1, CS3.3). Students are 
provided a new text(s) to practise their reading skills through the current theme. They look at the surrounding 
visual materials, the title of the text and other supportive elements to guess the topic of the new reading 
content and they make predictions to be checked after reading the text (D1.1, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS4, CS2.2, 
CS2.11, CS2.16.2).
ENG8.1. R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING:  Students read the new reading text carefully 
to check their predictions made in the preparation session at the beginning of the lesson (SELS1.2, V3.4, 
LS1, CS2.8). Then they read the text very quickly (scanning) to check the main components and categories 
with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations that are provided by the 
teacher (V3.3, LS4, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.6).  They compare the components they have found in the text with 
those written by the teacher on the smart board/whiteboard related to the sub-themes of “school events and 
celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days and celebrations” (D3.6, V7.2, 
V13.2, V14.3, V19.1, LS2, LS5, CS2.7). Students read the text very quickly to check that the main components 
correspond to the headings written by the teacher on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on 
the list (already provided by the teacher) at their desks (V3.4, LS7, CS2.8). The teacher could use different 
versions of the scanning activities as described in the “listening/watching- comprehension” section above. 
In this way, they can understand the text in general better with the help of scanning (CS2.16.1). They share 
the components with the whole class (SELS2.1) and then they discuss the accuracy of the results as a whole 
class (D2.3, D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.2, LS1, CS2.8).
ENG8.1. R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING : Students read the new text silently in pairs in a jigsaw reading 
activity as they have done in the vocabulary session earlier (D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.1). During the reading session, 
they look out for new words whose meanings they do not know (if there are any, other than the target words 
previously covered in the listening/watching-comprehension and vocabulary recognition sessions) (CS2.6). 
They work on the new words in the same way as in the vocabulary sessions. Then they deal with the semantic 
meaning conveyed in the text through display questions, then semi-closed activities and then open-ended 
activities  (V3.3, V6.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.6).  They deal with the meaning by using strategies from the closed 
to the open-ended range to understand the theme “school life and education”  in terms of the sub-themes 
of “school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days and 
celebrations“ mean from different perspectives to build their own understandings (D3.6, D3.8, SELS3.1, 
CS2.13). The teacher facilitates a number of activities to help the students improve their comprehension, 
synthesis and evaluation skills after applying the knowledge they have gained from the reading process 
(SELS3.2, SELS3.3, CS2.3, CS2.17, CS2.20).  After this stage, they work on activities to connect their 
knowledge and skills they have acquired about the current content with CLIL (history, maths, science, etc.) 
and cultural issues to be able to enrich their perspectives on the current theme (D3.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, 
V13.2, V14.3, V19.1, LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.13, CS2.14) . In this way, they will have the opportunity to develop 
their knowledge and language competence through reading. They can have the opportunity to develop their 
cognitive, emotional, cultural, social, and creative skills through the process of reading (SELS3.3, V7.2, 
CS2.20).
ENG8.1.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING PROCESS: Students reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation 
to the whole reading-comprehension process (SELS1.3). They talk about them individually and then share 
them with the whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15) . After the reflection and feedback 
session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, 
V4.3, V12.1, LS1).

===== PDF_PAGE_938 =====
938
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.1.W1.
PREPARATION FOR WRITING-EXPRESSION:  Students are facilitated throughout the theme with writing 
activities, from the first lesson to the last when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount of writing. At the beginning of the writing process, students recall their pre-existing 
knowledge about the current content to make a link between what they know and what they are going to 
write about (D3.2, SELS1.1, CS2.12).  This includes examining all the audio/visual sources and elements 
provided for understanding the writing task (V3.2, LS1, CS2.2).
ENG8.1.W2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL:  Students listen (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the writing task they have been given (CS2.2). These are limited and short pieces of writing to see how the 
language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the written language, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “school life and education”. 
Initially, they practise the language in a more controlled way, writing to repeat or simply explain what they 
have heard and seen and/ or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they 
try to understand how the language is used in the target content by examining the model/example writing 
carefully (V3.4, LS2, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2) . They try to understand and plan how they can convey the 
knowledge they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in 
relation to current content in their later free writing tasks (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, LS1).
ENG8.1.W3.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WRITTEN CONTENT:  After working on a sample/model writing task, students 
begin to produce/construct similar tasks of their own (V16.1). They participate in several writing activities 
individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class (D2.3, SELS2.2, V4.1). Their products could range from 
writing a word to a phrase, a clause to a full sentence, a group of sentences to a short paragraph, an essay to 
a short story. These writing activities will help students to produce and display meaningful written language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme as in others (SELS2.1, LS1, CS2.13).
ENG8.1.W4.
PRACTISING BY PRODUCING WRITTEN CONTENT: Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
essays, diaries/journals, blogs, scripts for plays, documentaries, films, etc. to express their ideas, thoughts, 
and feelings in relation to the current topic (D1.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.20). They take part in 
individual or collaborative projects to improve their writing skills together with social, cultural, cognitive, and 
affective aspects (D1.4, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2).  Within this variety, they can find the opportunities to 
show how they can use the language that they have learnt to describe and comment on the current content 
for developing new ideas about them in different genres of writing, according to their potential needs for 
expressing themselves and communication with others  (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V7.2, V13.2, V14.3, V19.1, LS5, 
CS2.14, CS3.3) . Storification and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further 
writing practice (D2.5, LS9).
ENG8.1.W5.
PROCESS WRITING: Controlled writing of words, sentences and paragraphs turns to process writing with 
the support of the teacher’s and also peers’ feedback in the theme. This process is expanded and supported 
with additional activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, etc. to practise further by 
writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme in 

===== PDF_PAGE_939 =====
939
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). All 
the content is formed as contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests, 
and language level. Students improve their writing after reviewing the feedback they receive and this spiral, 
cyclical, and ongoing work becomes a progressive path for students (D3.1, SELS1.2, V12.3, LS1, CS3.1).
ENG8.1.W6.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING: Students communicate their ideas, thoughts 
and feelings about the sub-themes of “school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing 
the environment; national days and celebrations” through their writing tasks (V7.2, V13.2, V14.3, V19.1, 
CS3.3). They can use AI-based technologies for various activities, by having access to authentic materials. 
They can also produce digital written materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways to 
interact and communicate with peers and/or other people inside and outside school by using the language 
including target words, language chunks, and the social language expressions for the relevant theme in their 
writing (D3.3, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V11.1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.20) . All writing activities can be evaluated as 
described in items (3), (4), (5), (9), (10), (11) and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
ENG8.1.W7.
REFLECTING THROUGH WRITING:  The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas 
and feelings in relation to the whole writing-expression process (SELS1.3) and students talk about them 
individually and share them with the whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15). After the reflection 
and feedback session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas (SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1, LS1).
SPEAKING-EXPRESSION
Practising through speaking from controlled to communicative stages: The teacher facilitates speaking 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the last. Speaking activities support students’ 
learning and help them to produce meaningful language for personal expression and communication with 
others, by using the language including the target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions of the theme (V3.4, V4.5, LS1, LS5).
ENG8.1.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  In the beginning, students recall their background knowledge about the 
theme through listening/watching and/or reading and then they talk about it (SELS1.1, CS2.12).  Students 
practise the target language items in a controlled way, by saying, repeating, explaining what they hear and 
see in the context, for instance, in the introductory digital story and the listening and reading sections in 
different contexts (SELS3.2). Then they can expand their language use and practice in each section by 
increasing the amount of speaking they do (D1.3, V3.4, LS1, CS2.13).
ENG8.1.S2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL : Students listen (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the speaking task they have been given (CS2.2). These are limited and short pieces of speaking to see how 
the language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the spoken language, 
after hearing them through listening activities in the theme. Initially, they practise the language in a more 
controlled way, repeating some utterances, simply explaining what they have heard and seen, and/or what 
they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to understand how the language 
is used in the target content by examining the speaking model/example carefully  (V3.3, V7.2, V13.2, V14.3, 
V19.1, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge they 

===== PDF_PAGE_940 =====
940
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to the 
current theme in their later free speaking tasks (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, V3.4, LS5).
ENG8.1.S3.
PRODUCTION OF MEANINGFUL AND ACCURATE CONTENT:  In the later stages of the lessons, the teacher 
prepares new contexts for the students in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading the language 
including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme “school life and education”  in fun, 
enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS3.2, V7.2, LS9).These newly created contents are contextual, 
practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. They participate 
in such speaking activities individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class (D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.20).
ENG8.1.S4.
CONSTRUCTING MEANINGFUL SPOKEN CONTENT:  Students produce various spoken content and their 
products could range from producing a simple utterance including a word to a phrase, a clause to a full 
sentence, a group of sentences to a short speech, a dialogue to a spoken presentation (SELS3.3, V3.4, 
CS2.20). These speaking activities will help students to produce accurate and meaningful spoken language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme “school life and education”  as in others (D3.6, SELS2.1, CS2.13).
ENG8.1.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Collaborative and communicative activities are 
designed and used to revise and consolidate the whole theme “school life and education” on the sub-themes 
of “school events and celebrations (sports, music, drama); developing the environment; national days and 
celebrations” (V4.5, LS5, CS2.13, CS2.14). Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further speaking practice throughout the theme (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.1, V4.2, LS4, 
LS9). Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such 
as dialogues, speeches, short texts, presentations, etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people inside and/or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
chunks, and social language expressions for the current theme (SELS2.3, V3.4, V7.1, V7.2, LS1, CS2.20). AI-
based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They 
can also produce digital materials and projects for speaking at school and at home through recordings (D3.3, 
SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V7.3, V11.1, LS2).  All these speaking activities can be evaluated as described in items 
(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), (9), (10), and (11) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.
ENG8.1.S6.
REFLECTING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students are encouraged to reflect individually or collaboratively in 
groups on their own individual learning (SELS1.3) or on their collaborative learning in pairs, groups or as a 
whole class collaboratively (D2.3, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  The activities will help and support students in these 
feedback and reflection sessions. Their feedback is shared with peers and the teacher and takes the form 
of interactive and ongoing feedback that can help their own improvement (SELS1.2, SELS2.1) and also they 
contribute to the improvement of their peers in their learning processes (V4.1, V4.3, V12.1, V12.3, LS1).

===== PDF_PAGE_941 =====
941
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To talk about sports, music or drama competitions, events or celebrations in English by using the 
target vocabulary and grammar. 
Activity 1: Role-play
The class is divided into pairs or small groups of 3-4 students, and each student is assigned a role, such as  
an event organiser, a participant, a referee, an attendee or a spectator. The students work collaboratively 
in their pairs or groups to develop a scenario based on a sports, music or drama event. As an additional 
task, students may create slogans or design brochures to promote their event. Each pair/group takes turns 
presenting their scenario through a role-play in front of the class. The rest of the class is given an evaluation 
form with performance categories such as “effective use of target vocabulary”, “effective use of grammar”, 
“great questioning skills”, “amazing explanation”, etc. Students use the form to evaluate each performance, 
giving constructive feedback and noting at least one positive highlight for each group. Completed evaluation 
forms can be exhibited on the class board for each student to check during the break. The teacher provides 
constructive feedback on students’ performances in terms of accurate and adequate use of target vocabulary 
and grammar and their presentation. Students write down one thing they did well and one thing they want to 
improve for next time. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To talk about sports, music or drama competitions, events or celebrations in English by using the 
target vocabulary and grammar.
Activity 1: Role-play
The class is divided into pairs or small groups of 3-4 students, and each student is assigned a role, such as an 
event organiser, a participant, a referee, an attendee or a spectator. The teacher prepares scenario prompts 
for each pair or group to guide their discussion. For example, “Your group is planning a school festival that 
includes sports competitions, music performances, and a drama contest. You will take on specific roles 
(e.g., organiser, referee, spectator) and plan the event together”. The teacher gives role cards with sample 
sentences, e.g., “May I help with….?” Or “Can you explain the rules of the tournament?” and detailed role 
descriptions in simple sentences. The teacher may also provide a vocabulary box that has target words and 
encourage them to use as many of them as possible. Groups perform their role-plays one by one. Students 
are allowed to use their notes if needed. The rest of the class is provided with a form, which can be used 
to evaluate different performance categories such as “effective use of target vocabulary”, “effective use of 
grammar”, “great questioning skills”, “amazing explanation”, etc. so that they can be engaged while listening to 
their classmates and assign at least one highlight to each performance. The finalized forms can be exhibited 
on the class board for each student to check during the break. The teacher provides constructive feedback 
on students’ performances in terms of accurate and adequate use of target vocabulary and grammar and 
their presentation. Students complete the sentence beginnings to reflect on one thing they did well and one 
thing they want to improve for next time. They also give a ‘stars’ rating (1-5) for their peer’s performance and a 
short explanation by completing sentence beginnings, e.g., “I gave you ________ because your __________ is 
good, but you should ___________”. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_942 =====
942
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 2: CLASSROOM LIFE & LEARNING
Sub-themes: Preferences for different learning 
activities; preferences for different learning 
technologies
This theme is centred on the concept of “classroom life and learning” and covers 
the sub-themes of “preferences for different learning activities; preferences 
for different learning technologies”. These components (sub-themes) are 
integrated into the learning process through the contextualised use of target 
vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and social language 
expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, 
collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ 
developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this 
theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed 
to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school 
environment.
CLASS HOURS 14 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.4. Self-Efficacy, D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.1. Empathy, 
D2.2. Responsibility, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, D2.5. Playfulness,  D3.1. 
Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.4. Seeking the Truth, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning, 
D3.9. Doubting, D3.10. Critical Perspective
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill  
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_943 =====
943
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Atatürk’s Principles and History of Revolution, Physical Education 
and Sports, Visual Arts, Music, Counselling and Career Planning, Technology and 
Design
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering 
Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, 
CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. 
Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation 
Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.18. Argumentation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing 
Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.2. Problem 
Solving Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_944 =====
944
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 8 is structured based on inductive approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.8.2.L1.  Students can prepare and get ready for listening (to)/watching about the current content on 
“classroom life and learning with preferences for different learning activities; preferences for 
different learning technologies”.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience about the current theme and 
content to recall their background knowledge by investigating it carefully.
b) Students identify significant and necessary relationships and connections between their pre-
existing knowledge, their past experience and the clues to the current content by responding 
to meaningful questions about it (without speaking Turkish or using a translation).
c) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by using their pre-existing 
knowledge and past experience of the content.
d) Students make rational predictions about the current content by looking at the supplementary 
visual elements provided. 
ENG.8.2.L2.  Students can bring together the information in the current content on “classroom life and 
learning with preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different learning 
technologies”.
a) Students identify the main topic of the current content in general by listening (to)/watching it 
as a whole in its context. 
b) Students recognise the significant details and basic components of the current content within 
the whole by listening (to) and watching the whole content carefully to notice them.
ENG.8.2.L3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “classroom 
life and learning with preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different 
learning technologies”.
a) Students check their initial predictions about the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between their self-predictions and the clues provided as visuals surrounding 
the content.
b) Students make significant and necessary classifications in the current content that affect the 
meaning of the generally perceived content.
c) Students make significant and necessary comparisons in the generally perceived current 
content to highlight differences between two or more different things by using visuals, ensuring 
clarity and meaning.
d) Students recognise significant branching, linear or spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content.
e) Students make essential inferences and deductions to understand the meaning of the 
generally perceived current content better.
f) Students strongly recognise the holistic meaning formed by the components, comparisons, 
classifications, and details related to the current content.
g) Students construct a detailed understanding of the meaning of the current content through 
prior classifications, comparisons, and inferences/deductions.
h) Students position, internalise and personalise current content in an individualised, age-
appropriate and level-appropriate way.
ENG.8.2.L4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related 
to the listening (to)/watching process about the current content on “classroom life and 
learning with preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different learning 
technologies” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_945 =====
945
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students individually convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings 
that are critically reviewed in relation to the current listening (to)/watching contents and the 
process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current listening (to)/watching content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce new audio/visual products individually by revising their personal work after 
participating in reflective activities related to the listening (to)/watching process of the current 
content.
ENG.8.2.P1.  Students can select and use target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases, clauses, and sentences in utterances authentically, naturally, 
and accurately in the current content about “classroom life and learning with preferences 
for different learning activities; preferences for different learning technologies” to develop 
holistic and conscious pronunciation skills after recognising them in context. 
a) Students recognise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases and sentences in utterances within the current content by 
listening (to)/ watching it, first as a whole and then with pauses.
b) Students repeat utterances, including target sentences, clauses, phrases, and words with 
target theme-specific sounds by considering phonological aspects such as pronunciation and 
intonation accurately and naturally in the content several times as a whole class and then in 
groups and individually.
c) Students talk about the current content by taking part in small group conversations by paying 
attention to select and use accurate phonological aspects such as pronunciation, intonation, 
stress, and other features as they are understood.
d) Students reflect personally on their pronunciation and other target phonological aspects such 
as intonation after recording and listening to group conversations about the target content.
e) Students evaluate feedback from others and their personal feedback and reflection by 
listening to or watching the audio/visual content again to check for accuracy.
f) Students utilise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of utterances including target sounds of the current content, appropriately, effectively, 
accurately, naturally, automatically, and consciously when communicating with others in 
different contexts.
ENG.8.2.R1.  Students can prepare for reading the content on “classroom life and learning with preferences 
for different learning activities; preferences for different learning technologies” efficiently 
and effectively.
a) Students recall and activate significant pre-existing knowledge and past experiences that can 
be related to the current theme and content through careful exploration. 
b) Students recognise significant relationships between pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to current content.
c) Students make strong preliminary predictions about the current content based on explored 
and recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring and examining the 
audio-visual clues in relation to it.
ENG.8.2.R2.  Students can bring information together about the current content on “classroom life and 
learning with preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different learning 
technologies” through skimming, scanning and detailed reading.
a) Students skim the current content by looking very quickly and carefully at the surrounding 
visual materials to identify its general focus.

===== PDF_PAGE_946 =====
946
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b)  Students scan the current content by reading it silently and quickly to find key and major 
components.
c) Students read the current content again silently and carefully to examine any significant 
semantic and structural details.
d) Students examine the semantic details in the content carefully to check the accuracy of their 
initial predictions.
ENG.8.2.R3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “classroom 
life and learning with preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different 
learning technologies”.
a) Students classify significant and necessary elements of the current content in a meaningful 
way.
b) Students compare significant and key elements of the current content with each other or with 
similar ones in a meaningful way.
c) Students recognise significant and basic spiral, causal, and logical relationships in the current 
content through careful examination and analysis.
d) Students make meaningful inferences from information in the current content by examining 
it critically.
e) Students internalise their meaningful inferences from information in the current content in an 
individualised way appropriate to their age and language level.
ENG.8.2.R4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to 
the reading process about the current content on “classroom life and learning with preferences 
for different learning activities; preferences for different learning technologies” in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content 
and process with others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
ENG.8.2.V1.  Students can select and use target vocabulary efficiently, effectively, and accurately, based on 
the current content about “classroom life and learning with preferences for different learning 
activities; preferences for different learning technologies” after recognising them in context 
and developing their conscious and inductive vocabulary learning skills.
a) Students make predictions about the main topic of the current content by identifying “general 
contextual clues” from the visual, audio, and written preparation materials provided during the 
“listening/watching for gist” and/or reading for “skimming” sessions.
b) Students check the accuracy of the predictions related to the “general contextual clue” by 
listening to, watching, and/or reading the audio, visual, and/or written content in context.
c) Students search the target audio/visual, and/or written content by scanning to find key 
components of the theme.
d) Students listen/watch the content carefully and/or read it silently to identify and underline/
circle target unknown words.
e) Students separate target (key-active) words from the other (non-key-passive) words in the 
target content.
f) Students examine relevant target words, phrases, and expressions in the current content to 
understand how and where they are used.

===== PDF_PAGE_947 =====
947
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
g)  Students determine paragraph context clues to identify the topics of the parts/paragraphs 
containing unknown target words.
h)  Students discuss the meaning of the target words by finding indirect sentence context clues 
in the assigned sentences of the parts/paragraphs of the content.
i)  Students determine the correct meanings of the target words in the current content in pairs 
or groups by comparing the meanings/definitions proposed.
j) Students confirm the accuracy of the meanings/definitions of the target words in the current 
content by consulting with the teacher, the class and/or by using printed or digital dictionaries.
k)  Students make use of the target words of the current theme in a range of semantically 
associated contextual activities and tasks accurately, naturally, authentically, and 
appropriately.
l) Students make use of the target words of the current theme accurately, naturally, appropriately 
and effectively through careful selection when communicating with others.
ENG.8.2.G1.  Students can select and use target grammatical language items efficiently, effectively, and 
accurately, based on the current content about “classroom life and learning with preferences 
for different learning activities; preferences for different learning technologies”, after 
recognising them in context and developing their conscious and inductive grammaring skills 
through consciousness-raising and discovery.
a)  Students listen to, watch, and/or read the audio, visual, and written current content presented 
in context that introduces the general use of the target language structures in the current 
theme.
b) Students examine example sentences provided by the teacher or instructional materials 
including target grammatical items to see how the target grammatical structure(s) of the 
target theme is/are used to construct a meaning or contribute to meaning.
c) Students analyse current audio, visual, and/or written content presented in context to identify 
sentences similar to those provided as examples.
d) Students find the commonalities between the sentences identified and those exemplified by 
the teacher or materials through careful comparison in pairs and/or groups.
e) Students discover the characteristics of the commonalities in the sentences in the current 
content by discussing them in pairs or groups as an awareness/consciousness-raising activity.
f) Students formulate rule(s) about the same/target grammar structure(s) of the current theme 
based on their observations and discussions in pairs or groups.
g)  Students engage in contextual activities on the use of target grammatical structures 
(grammaring) of the current theme to explain and justify the grammar rule(s) they have 
discovered.
h)  Students practise to consolidate their understanding of the target grammar that they 
discovered by selecting accurate and meaningful items in meaningful and contextualised 
activities.
i) Students produce accurate and unique verbal or written content by using target grammar 
consciously and in a natural way, without thinking about the rules.
j) Students produce new spoken/written content by using the target grammatical structures 
efficiently, authentically, automatically, and naturally in context when communicating with 
others without thinking about rules.
ENG.8.2.W1.  Students can prepare for writing efficiently and accurately based on the current content about 
“classroom life and learning with preferences for different learning activities; preferences for 
different learning technologies”.
a) Students relate pre-existing knowledge and experiences from initial listening, watching, and 
reading processes to current content by examining and activating them.

===== PDF_PAGE_948 =====
948
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students understand what the current writing task requires in terms of content and purpose in 
relation to the current content accurately by applying pre-existing knowledge and experiences, 
following guided instructions.
ENG.8.2.W2.  Students can analyse and understand a provided model to guide them in producing similar 
writing tasks related to the content on “classroom life and learning with preferences for 
different learning activities; preferences for different learning technologies”.
a) Students grasp the significant and basic components of the content in the model/sample 
provided for the assigned writing task, including word selection and use, grammar selection 
and use, and other details such as type, style, and meaning as required.
ENG.8.2.W3.  Students can construct new written content on “classroom life and learning with preferences 
for different learning activities; preferences for different learning technologies” based on 
their understanding of the model(s) provided.
a) Students share their ideas and thoughts by brainstorming through collaborative discussion to 
generate ideas for the new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current 
theme.
b) Students plan how the knowledge and ideas generated during the brainstorming session can 
be applied to their new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current theme.
c) Students conduct preliminary research relevant to the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) 
writing task on the current content, considering the type of writing, age appropriateness, and 
language level.
d) Students produce a well-organised and detailed draft relevant to the (prepared and/or 
unprepared) type of writing and appropriate for the age and language level.
e) Students organise and develop contextual materials relevant to the type of the assigned task 
(prepared and/or unprepared) and appropriate to age and language level.
f) Students modify the content they produce for the assigned writing task in a coherent and 
meaningful way, consistent with the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) type of writing, 
and appropriate to the age and language level.
ENG.8.2.W4.  Students can practise producing written content based on the current theme “classroom 
life and learning with preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different 
learning technologies”.
a) Students present relevant supportive materials appropriate to the assigned (prepared and/
or unprepared) writing task, considering the type of writing and appropriate to the age and 
language level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and strategies for the assigned (prepared 
and/or unprepared) writing task, considering its writing type and appropriate to their age and 
language level.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language structures accurately and appropriately 
in their writing tasks, by selecting necessary and appropriate ones in line with the assigned 
type of writing and appropriate to the age and language level.
d) Students express their messages about the current content clearly to the reader in the 
assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task.
ENG.8.2.W5.  Students can engage in the process of writing related to the content on “classroom life and 
learning with preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different learning 
technologies”.
a) Students review the feedback from the teacher and/or peers critically on their prepared and/
or unprepared writing task(s).
b) Students revise to reorganise the written content of their prepared and/or unprepared task 
based on the feedback received from the teacher and/or peers.

===== PDF_PAGE_949 =====
949
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students refine and develop their written content produced for their prepared/unprepared 
writing task through the iterative feedback process.
ENG.8.2.W6.  Students can reconstruct their writing about the current theme on “classroom life and 
learning with preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different learning 
technologies” to communicate effectively about it.
a) Students adapt and use individually internalised information in current or similar content by 
selecting and reorganising it meaningfully in written form as necessary when communicating 
with other people in different contexts.
b) Students exchange information and ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge and content with others.
ENG.8.2.W7.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the writing 
process about the current content on “classroom life and learning with preferences for 
different learning activities; preferences for different learning technologies” in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings they review 
critically in relation to their current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current writing-expression content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce their new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current writing-expression content and process.
ENG.8.2.S1.  Students can prepare themselves to speak meaningfully, fluently, and efficiently about 
the current content on “classroom life and learning with preferences for different learning 
activities; preferences for different learning technologies”.
a) Students relate current content by analysing pre-existing knowledge and experiences from 
earlier listening, watching, and reading sessions to associate them with the current content.
ENG.8.2.S2.  Students can analyse and understand the model content related to “classroom life and 
learning with preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different learning 
technologies” to support the production of spoken language.
a) Students grasp what the provided model/example is about with the help of audio, visual, and/
or written elements after listening, watching, and/or reading the current content.
ENG.8.2.S3.  Students can produce meaningful and accurate spoken content related to the current theme 
on “classroom life and learning with preferences for different learning activities; preferences 
for different learning technologies”.
a) Students recognise which form and type of spoken content is expected and assigned based on 
the model/example about the current theme for both prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations through careful examination.
b) Students conduct preliminary research on the expected and assigned content to be produced 
for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students develop a draft outline in accordance with the assigned prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations as presented in the model/example, appropriate to the age and language 
level based on the current theme.
d) Students organise supplementary audio-visual materials in accordance with the assigned 
task as presented in the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations 
and appropriate to their age and language level. 
e) Students organise information related to the current content to be presented, appropriate to 
the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.

===== PDF_PAGE_950 =====
950
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
f) Students critically review their prepared presentation content for accuracy, coherence, and 
appropriateness to audience and context in prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.8.2.S4.  Students can construct meaningful spoken content about “classroom life and learning with 
preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different learning technologies” 
through efficient and meaningful practice.
a) Students make spoken content clear and understandable to listeners by selecting and using 
style and form appropriate to age and language level in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
b) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using materials appropriate to the 
context, age, language level, style, and type of discourse, similar to those presented in the 
model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using target vocabulary and language 
structures similar and/or appropriate to those presented in the model/example considering 
their age, language level, context, style, and type of discourse for prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations.
d) Students convey relevant explicit, implicit, and/or complex messages related to the current 
content clearly in context to the listeners by using appropriate material and body language in 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
e) Students convey their messages about the current content clearly to the listeners by 
incorporating all the necessary semantic elements in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
ENG.8.2.S5.  Students can reconstruct the information about “classroom life and learning with preferences 
for different learning activities; preferences for different learning technologies” when 
communicating with others.
a) Students use the same or similar information presented in the current content in verbal or 
written forms in different contexts by reorganising it meaningfully, accurately, effectively, 
efficiently, functionally, and individually as required.
b) Students engage in verbal and/or written communication by sharing the reconstructed 
meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.8.2.S6.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the 
speaking process about the current content on “classroom life and learning with preferences 
for different learning activities; preferences for different learning technologies” in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students reveal their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they review critically 
in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
critically review in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process with 
others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_951 =====
951
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
CLASSROOM LIFE & LEARNING
Sub-themes: preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different learning technologies 
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for preferences for different learning activities:
Nouns: Background, education, progress, improvement, an essay, a lecture, a process, a strategy, a survey, 
a task, thought.
Verbs: To achieve, to present, to question, to succeed, to dislike, to manage.
Adjectives: Ideal, individual, successful, creative, effective.
Adverbs: Well, successfully, (all right).
Preposition: According to.
Vocabulary for preferences for different learning technologies:
Nouns: A comment, a document, a download, a network, social media, a setting, a diagram, a challenge, an 
effort, a set, management, an account, an assignment, a disadvantage, an issue.
Verbs: To save, to download, to set up.
Adjectives: Necessary, outdoor, practical, related, suitable, educational, complex, technical.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations:  “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Simple Present Tense for the Future: (Students present their essays tomorrow in the lecture hall).
-The Present Progressive Tense for the Future: (The instructor is presenting a lecture on educational 
strategies next week).
- “Can” for ability: (He can save the document to the network effortlessly). 
- “Can’t” for ability: (They can’t succeed in completing the assignment without further explanation).
- “Have to” for obligations in Present: (She has to save all related documents for her assignment today). 
- “Had to” for obligations in the Past: (They had to download the educational material last night).
-Necessity with “Need”: (You need to set the diagram in the most suitable format for the presentation). 
- “Needn’t” for permission: (You needn’t present your assignment in this complex setting).
-Question Tags for “Modals”: (Students can download the document easily, can’t they?) (She had to save the 
diagram for the task, didn’t she?)
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
Use of the Simple Present Tense for the Future: Describing scheduled or planned (timetabled) actions in the 
future.
Use of the Present Progressive Tense for the Future: Indicating fixed arrangements or actions already 
planned for the future.
Use of “can” for abilities: Expressing ability or skill to perform an action.
Use of “can’t” for abilities: Expressing lack of ability or skill to perform an action.
Use of “have to” for obligations in present: Indicating present external necessity, obligation or requirement.
Use of “had to” for obligations in past: Indicating past external necessity or requirement.

===== PDF_PAGE_952 =====
952
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Use of necessity with “need”: Expressing a requirement or necessity for action.
Use of “needn’t” for permissions: Indicating lack of necessity or optionality in action.
Use of question tags for modals: Seeking confirmation or agreement about ability, obligation, or necessity.
Target Social Language in Use:
Brush up on your English before the exam!
I finally got the hang of doing Maths!
I’ve been burying myself in books lately!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
 Intonation of negative statements
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “classroom life and learning” and its components such as “preferences for 
different learning activities; preferences for different learning technologies” is present in almost all languages. 
People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to their 
new language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what “classroom life and 
learning” and its components such as “preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different 
learning technologies” means but will not know how to say them in a foreign language if this has not yet been 
covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them 
recognise, understand, and learn the new information more easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts: 
Preferences, learning activities, preferences for different learning activities, technology, learning 
technologies, preferences for different learning technologies.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT:  Students will create a short video or a digital presentation where they 
describe their preferences for different learning activities and technologies used in the classroom. In their 
video or presentation, they will include at least three types of learning activities (e.g., group work, individual 
projects, games) and three types of learning technologies (e.g., tablets, interactive boards, educational 
apps). They will explain why they like these methods and technologies, giving simple reasons such as “I like 
group work because I can share ideas with my friends” or “I prefer using educational apps because they are 
fun and helpful.” The assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking 
scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “classroom life and learning” and its components such 
as “preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different learning technologies”. As they 
are lower-secondary school students in year 8 (eight), they can know what “classroom life and learning” and 
its components such as “preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different learning 
technologies” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people who start to learn a new 
language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and transfer it to their new 
language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these things in a foreign language if 
this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own 
language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a foreign language, in this case 
English.
As they are students in year 8 of lower-secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about 

===== PDF_PAGE_953 =====
953
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
“classroom life and learning” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/
or years. These grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning 
of the year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the 
current theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about the “classroom life and learning” and its components such as “preferences for different learning 
activities; preferences for different learning technologies”. Recalling and practising with relevant vocabulary 
and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as a basis for 
moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “classroom life and learning”. Therefore, a 
dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary and grammatical items from the previous themes in 
previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance 
can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to understand and use 
the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the current theme. It can be 
decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new 
vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics throughout 
these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students are asked to recall the concept of “classroom life and learning” by remembering their pre-existing 
background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with 
the current activities in the theme in English without saying anything in Turkish and without translating 
anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English. To remind them 
of their pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, many materials 
such as “a scene from a short film, a passage from a book, a part from a personal diary (journal),  a part of a 
story, a collection of pictures, a part of an animation, a poster, an excerpt from a video etc.” related to this 
content can be shared with the class before the main teaching/learning flow begins. The materials about 
the current concept would give a general idea of the theme. Students are work on the material according to 
the instructions and try to grasp it. The teacher tries to check if they have an idea about the topic of the new 
theme with several activities. When they have finished working on them, the teacher asks them in English 
if they have understood what has been in the material. She/He asks them to write a related words that they 
already know (learnt in previous years) in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/ box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways for checking their comprehension could be tried by the teacher.
They wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the theme, the digital 
introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme “classroom life and learning”  in the classroom, to prepare the students 
emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as 
an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their 
well-being (D1.5, V12.1, V13.4). This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/
singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote, 
a very short story, watching a pantomime/online story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current 
theme and does not require any knowledge of the current theme in English (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.4, V7.2, 
V13.2, LS4).That is only for relaxation and preparation for the lesson.
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills are used in an integrated way around a central topic “classroom life and learning” and the 
sub-themes of “preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different learning technologies”, 

===== PDF_PAGE_954 =====
954
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
allowing students to build background knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive 
tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to 
support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive 
in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity 
builds on the previous one to promote language development and to increase communicative competence. 
The theme “classroom life and learning” is characterised by a balanced integration of all the skills, where 
students engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) and respond 
through output (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their grammar, vocabulary and 
phonological selection and use skills.
ENG8.2.L1.
PREPARATION FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students prepare to access the introduction to the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to remember what they have done during the “establishing links” 
session for recalling background knowledge about the related concept where they watched a short film 
scene prepared for that section (which is not a part of the introductory digital story of the theme) (D3.2, V3.4, 
LS1, LS2, LS4). They remember what they already know about the content to prepare themselves to work on 
guessing the topic of the current theme (V10.1, V11.1, LS1, LS5). They prepare to access the main materials 
of the theme for having connections by making predictions based on the short film in the “establishing links” 
session (D3.8, V3.3, LS1, LS4).
ENG8.2. L2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER BY LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students collect “general context clues” to 
understand the whole content by looking at visual clues before listening (to)/watching. The teacher asks the 
students to look at any visual material such as pictures, posters, and realia related to the current content to 
identify the topic of the content and to answer the question “What is the whole content about?” (D3.6, V10.1, 
V11.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.2). They can realise that there might be different elements related to this concept 
(D2.1, V4.5). The teacher asks them to look at the visuals quickly to make predictions about the topic of the 
whole theme by using the “listening (to)/watching for gist” strategy before listening/watching the main visual 
material of the theme, which is the introductory digital story (D3.8, V4.5, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.11). The teacher 
asks the students to read the title of the theme and asks them to brainstorm by thinking about which words 
they already know and which words come to mind in connection with the title (D3.4, LS2, CS2.12, CS2.16.2). 
She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new/target words they do not know at this stage of 
the lesson. She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity to guess the general topic/theme of 
the context by using the words they already know and that there will be time to work on the new words 
of the current content later (D1.4, V12.2). At this stage, some guessing games can be played to guess the 
main topic of the current content/theme by using the clues from the additional visuals such as pictures, 
posters, etc. related to the content, prepared and produced by the teacher, by using web 2.0 tools (D2.5, 
D3.3, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG8.2.L3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  Students identify and recognise the topic of the 
current theme by listening (to)/watching the introductory digital story that provides a context for the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen (to)/watch the introductory digital story to recognise the 
topic of the theme in general (This is a kind of preparation to work on the target key vocabulary in the later 
stages of the lesson(s) (D3.2, V3.4).The teacher asks the students to recall the work done with visuals (the 
scene from a short film) in the “establishing links” session about the current context shown earlier during the 
listening (to)/ watching session (D3.2, LS2). Students watch the digital introductory story and consolidate 
the identification of the target theme as a whole (CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that the 
students can hear/ see the context as a whole and understand the theme holistically (D3.1, V10.1, V11.1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5).

===== PDF_PAGE_955 =====
955
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
MAKING MEANING THROUGH THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE THEME BY LISTENING/W ATCHING:  
Students find and identify the main components of the current content by listening (to)/watching the 
context quickly through scanning. The teacher organises a scanning activity to find out the components as 
the basic and most important details of the current content through the introductory digital story to help 
students learn and know more about the current theme. She/He asks the students to listen and watch the 
story again without stopping, by scanning/looking for any relevant words or concepts that are heard in the 
story (D3.6, V3.4, LS2, LS4, LS7) . The teacher hands out a sheet to the students on which there is a list of 
words/phrases, etc. to tick, circle or underline. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard through 
watching the story very quickly without stopping. The teacher could apply different versions of scanning 
activities such as finding important elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which 
elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, LS1, CS2.4).  In this 
way, they will be able to understand the story in general through the main elements and components by 
eliminating the irrelevant ones. Students share with the whole class the words and components they have 
found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the teacher to them (D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.4). Then they 
discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class (SELS2.2, CS2.8). This is evaluated as described in 
items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After having 
watched the introductory digital story, the teacher places five headings on the smart board/whiteboard/
blackboard which are on the target vocabulary list of the related theme as clues to the components of the 
current theme (D3.7, V10.1, V11.1, LS5). She/He places a corresponding picture next to each component and 
writes the name of each heading. She/He guides students to understand the heading of each category with 
the help of pictures. The teacher asks the students to work with the words they already know during this 
phase of the lesson (SELS1.2). Students work on these categories with the help of the scenes from the 
introductory digital story (D3.6, LS2, LS4). The teacher reads the headings aloud a few times by pointing to 
the corresponding pictures on the board and the students repeat them. Then the students say the headings 
all together. For working on the sub-themes of “preferences for different learning activities; preferences 
for different learning technologies” further, the teacher asks volunteers to go to the board and choose 
the picture (already provided by the teacher) to stick/pin/ drag it on the white/black board or the smart 
board (if the teacher asks) (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.2, V3.4, V20.4, LS2, LS4).  Then, they say the headings 
(components) together as a whole class. In this way, the main components of the theme “classroom life and 
learning” are introduced to the students in English (LS5). At this stage, the meanings of the target words are 
not studied, but the categorisation of the basic components contributes to their recognition of the concept 
in general. The teacher could ask the students to decide which words in the introductory digital story they 
do not know and to note them while reading the text later in the reading session (D1.2, D1.6, D3.8, SELS1.1, 
V3.4). This could be evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (6) (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. All this work helps them understand the main categories 
through classifications and also the inferences they make while listening to and watching the introductory 
digital story and/or examining the picture related to the content. In this way, they recognise and comprehend 
the main concept as a whole through categorisation, comparison, and inference (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5, V3.3, 
LS2, LS4, LS7).
 
ENG8.2.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS: Students check the accuracy of their prior guesses, 
reflect on their ideas and feelings about the listening/watching session, and give feedback to each other. 
After the students listen (to)/watch the introductory digital story to find the main components of the theme, 
the teacher asks them whether their guesses they made during the “establishing links” session, looking at 
visuals session, and their first listening (to)/watching session have been correct (D3.8, V4.2, V4.3, LS2, LS4). 
As they have already seen a scene from a short film created about the concept of the current theme, during 
the “establishing links” session earlier, and looked at some supplementary visuals (pictures, the title of the 
theme) and also they saw the picture related to the introductory digital story they can easily answer what the 
current theme is about and that their guesses were correct (D3.4, V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). The teacher 

===== PDF_PAGE_956 =====
956
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole listening (to)/
watching process and students talk about them individually (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole class 
(D2.3, SELS.2.1, V4.2). After the reflection and feedback session, they talk again about the components of 
the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their ideas (SELS2.2, V4.2, V10.3).
ENG8.2.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Students recognise the pronunciation and other phonological 
aspects of target utterances, including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen (to)/watch an extract from the introductory digital story as 
the main context for noticing the target phonological elements (LS1, LS2, LS4).  She/He asks them to pay 
attention to the target pronunciation and/or other phonological aspects in the current content. The teacher 
asks them to notice how the target phonological aspects are used in context. Starting with the extract from 
the digital story, students go on with other contextual examples and activities to hear and understand the 
use of target elements in context (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION (AND OTHER PHONOLOGICAL ASPECTS):  Students 
select and use accurate, natural, and authentic target pronunciation and other phonological aspects of the 
target utterances including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme “classroom 
life and learning”. After recognition activities, students repeat the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme aloud a few times as a whole class with accurate 
and natural pronunciation and other phonological aspects after listening (to)/watching the recordings that 
the teacher has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes or some other AI-based technologies 
(D3.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2).To help the students pronounce the target utterances including sentences, clauses, 
phrases, words, and sounds accurately, the teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as 
showing the target utterance to the students and they say it or letting them listen to the recording, then 
turning off the recording randomly and students say the utterances they hear from the recording (D3.2, 
D3.7, D2.3). Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one 
out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound exercises by getting help from 
AI technologies (D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2, LS4) . Along with the target utterances, the target 
sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are also practised in the same ways. This 
is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) as described in the section1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7).
FURTHER PRACTICE OF THE TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Students practise pronunciation with further 
activities for practice, consolidation, feedback and reflection. The teacher could use tape recording and 
feedback techniques. Students read aloud and record a text with the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme   provided by the teacher, at home (D1.2, D1.6, 
D2.3, SELS3.1, V4.1, V5.1, LS2, LS5).  They bring their recording(s) to school. First, they listen to the correct 
pronunciation of the text, provided by the teacher, in class. Then they listen to the recordings of individual 
students. During or after listening to the texts recorded by the students at home, the students give self-
feedback or peer feedback on the pronunciation of the words in the recordings (D2.4, D3.6, SELS1.3, 
SELS2.2, V4.1, V12.1, V14.1, LS1, LS5).  If available, a different version of the recording technique could be 
applied in the class. The teacher asks the students to discuss, say/talk about something, which they already 
know, related to the theme. Groups take turns to talk and the rest of the class listens (D2.3, D2.4, SELS2.2). 
During this session, the teacher records their discussions. After each group’s performance, the class listens 
to the recording for pronunciation and everyone gives feedback on it, including the individual students who 
have spoken during the discussion (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS1).  The teacher can get 
help from AI-based technologies for these activities if available. Students’ performances are evaluated as 
explained in items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
pronunciation process and students talk about them individually  (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole 

===== PDF_PAGE_957 =====
957
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS2, CS2.15) . After the reflection and feedback 
session, they talk again about the components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their 
ideas (SELS1.2, V3.3, V6.2, V10.3, LS1, LS2).
ENG8.2.V1
PREPARATION FOR THE WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To scan for finding the main components of 
the theme “classroom life and learning”, the teacher asks the students to listen to and watch the introductory 
digital story to remember the topic of content mentioned in the previous listening/watching sessions. 
The teacher also asks them to check their predictions made in the first listening/watching session at the 
beginning of the lessons on the current theme once more again (D3.8, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS7).
Then the teacher asks the students to read the relevant parts of the written version of the introductory 
digital story provided by the teacher by scanning (reading very quickly) to check the main components 
and categories with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations with the 
headings that the teacher has previously written on the smart board/white board/blackboard in relation to 
the main components of the theme  “classroom life and learning” (D3.7, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.4, CS2.8). Students read the written extract from the story very quickly to check the main components 
corresponding to the headings that the teacher has written on the board and then they tick/circle/underline 
them on the list (already provided by the teacher) at their seats  (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4). The teacher could apply 
different versions of scanning activities such as finding important components, categories, and elements on 
a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever 
she/he likes (LS1, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.8). In this way, they can understand the story in general better with the 
help of reading this time after the listening/watching sessions held earlier through the main elements and 
components by eliminating the irrelevant ones (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, V3.4, LS1, LS2, CS2.16.1).  Students share 
with the whole class the components they have found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the 
teacher to them (D2.3, SELS2.1). Then they discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class (D2.4, D3.6, 
D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, V16.3, LS1, CS2.8).
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  To read for the details for finding 
the new target vocabulary the teacher asks the students to read the written version of the introductory 
digital story (or another written text for working on the target vocabulary) in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity 
(D3.2, SELS2.2). One peer reads the first half of the story/text and the second peer reads the other half 
silently in a given time (V3.4, V4.1, V9.2, LS1, CS2.6). The teacher asks them to look out for new words whose 
meanings they do not know during this silent and detailed reading and asks them to look out for new (target) 
words they have previously noted during the listening/watching sessions (D1.2, D1.6, D3.6, D3.8, V3.3, V16.1, 
LS7). They are then asked to share these words with their peers without discussing their meanings in the 
text (D2.4, D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, V6.2).  The teacher starts working on the new (target) words here. In this 
way, they have a detailed reading, understand the story better, and find the new (target) words that they do 
not know to work on.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To separate key (active) and non-key (passive) target vocabulary 
in context: To check whether the students know any of the target key vocabulary about the content, the 
teacher asks them to say the new words whose meaning they do not know and which they have noticed 
and noted during their silent jigsaw reading session and the students do that  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, D3.2, D3.8, 
V3.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4) . When they say the words, the teacher writes them on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard by putting them on two lists. She/He writes the key (active) target words on one list and the 
non-key (passive) target words on the other list (that she/he has already decided on earlier when planning 
the lesson). She/He quickly covers the non-key words with examples, pictures, question-answers, however, 
spends more time on the key target words as described below (D3.2, D3.6, V1.2, V3.4, LS2, LS4).

===== PDF_PAGE_958 =====
958
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY:  To find “part/paragraph context clues” in the parts/paragraphs 
of the story (context): The teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again, paying 
attention to which part of the story the unknown words that they do not know are in the utterances (D3.2, 
D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4).  He wants to introduce the meanings of the target key (active) vocabulary 
related to the theme that the students do not know part by part. Then she/he asks them to read the first 
part/paragraph in the written version of the story (or similar text) where the unknown words (active key 
target vocabulary) appear (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS5, LS7, CS2.8). Then she/he asks them whether they 
understand the meaning of the part/paragraph (D3.8, SELS3.1). She/He asks them to discuss the meaning of 
the part/paragraph in pairs in general without knowing the meaning of each new target word and asks what 
helps them understand the meaning of the part/paragraph (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, LS1, LS7). Students discuss 
the meaning of the part/paragraph in pairs (D3.10, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.18) and report back to the class. The 
teacher takes notes on the board and writes what the part/paragraph is about in one word/clause/sentence 
in the story (V6.2, LS1, LS5, CS2.16.1) . As each part/ paragraph covers a different but related piece of the 
whole topic, they realise that each part/paragraph contains new target words about a specific part of the 
whole theme. This helps them think about what each new target word in each part/paragraph could be about 
(D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, CS2.16.1). These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), and (8) 
in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To find “sentence clues”/ “the indirect context clues” for the target 
key (active) words in the sentences in context: The teacher helps the students deal with each target key 
word by looking around these words in the sentences for collecting clues which can help them understand 
the meaning of these unknown target words. Starting from the first unknown target (key) word, students 
are asked to look at the words around the target (key) words (D3.2, D3.6, D3.8, D3.9, D3.10, SELS3.1, LS1, 
S2.1,CS2.16.3). These clues could be linking words, adjectives, adverbs, determiners, suffixes, prefixes, 
time expressions that can help them understand the meaning of the unknown target word (but they do not 
talk about the terminology and parts of speeches, instead they talk about the meanings and functions of 
these supportive surrounding words). The teacher asks students to work in pairs to go through and list the 
“indirect clues” for each word (D3.5, D3.7, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, CS2.7, CS2.17).  When they finish working in 
pairs, the teacher goes through each word with the whole class and listens to what clues they have found 
to understand the meaning of the unknown target (key) word in the sentences (SELS3.1, V4.1, LS7). This is 
evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION AND SELECTION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To practise with the target words: To practise 
with the target vocabulary that the students work on through “sentence clues/indirect context clues”, the 
teacher checks their understanding again by showing them some realia that she/he has already provided 
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, LS5, CS2.5). The teacher shows them to the students and asks them to think about what 
they are and share them with their peers and then they check the answers with the whole class (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.19).Then the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again and 
shows the corresponding pictures to the students when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
story, without stopping the video while they are watching the story (LS2, LS4). When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the realia/visual elements, etc. about the content and asks in the form of two 
options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that they already know  (D3.6, LS5, CS2.7, CS3.1). 
As they have studied the words through the “part/paragraph and sentences clues” in reading the text earlier, 
the students can choose the correct option when they hear the words for the related theme and they answer 
them after talking about them in pairs (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, V6.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1). In this way they can 
further practise the meaning of the target words. These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), 
(6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section1.2 Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.

===== PDF_PAGE_959 =====
959
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Further vocabulary practice through dialogical work: The 
teacher shows the story again, and from the beginning, whenever a target vocabulary item is mentioned 
in the story, the teacher stops the video and asks questions (or lets the students ask and answer each 
other). In this way, they are engaged in various dialogues and use the target words in these dialogues (D2.3, 
D3.8, SELS2.1, V4.1, V6.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.8).  So, they revise and practise the meanings of the target (key) 
vocabulary of the theme “classroom life and learning”. This kind of technique could be applied with different 
and enjoyable activities according to the preference of the teacher. These activities are conducted in the 
form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (2) and (6) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Further activities and games are played at this 
stage to reinforce the meaning of the target words by using several materials including AI-based and web 2.0 
(D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4). They can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a 
problem with technology. These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8) and (9) in the 
section in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Consolidation of the target vocabulary: To further practise 
the target vocabulary, the teacher can prepare an activity with images/pictures of target vocabulary using 
the web 2.0 tools. She/He mixes these images/pictures for the target vocabulary items and puts them in a 
raffle programme by using a web 2.0 tools or a real box in the classroom. She/He asks the students to take 
turns to go to the white/black board and to draw a picture related to the target components of the current 
theme (D2.3, SELS1.2). Then students say several things about the items in the picture (D1.5, D2.3, V3.4, 
LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.20). The teacher asks the students in their seats to take notes while the student at the 
white/black board talks about the picture she/he has drawn and to give feedback by raising yes/no cards, or 
correcting if there are mistakes, etc., and also repeat the sentences after him/her (D3.9, D3.10, SELS2.2, 
V3.4, CS3.3).When the student at the white/black board finishes, the teacher asks her/him to put the picture 
under the right category that she/he has previously placed on the white/black board earlier. In this way, 
images/pictures that are relevant to the concepts of the target theme will be revised and consolidated once 
again through categorisation (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5). The teacher asks the students to write a definition or an 
example sentence in their personal dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling and definitions (D1.2, D1.6, D3.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V6.2, CS2.20).  
Students’ learning can be checked and evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. When the vocabulary session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the process. Students 
reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the whole class (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.1, SELS1.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  They also give feedback to each other  (D2.1, D2.4, V6.1, 
V9.2, V10.3).
ENG8.2.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  Consciousness raising- 
discovery for the use of target language structures in inductive learning process: The teacher writes 
some sentences on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to read the sentences. Then 
she/he asks them to watch the introductory digital story again to draw their attention to the use of target 
grammatical structures of the theme “classroom life and learning” (D3.2, LS7). The introductory digital story 
is replayed so that the students can notice the use of language with the target grammar structures (LS2). 
While watching the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the language with the 
target grammatical structures is used. When the students finish watching the introductory digital story 
again, the teacher asks the students to read and examine the example sentences carefully (D3.2, D3.6, 
LS7, CS2.2, CS2.6, CS3.2). Then she/he asks the students to work in pairs and find similar sentences with 
the target grammar structure(s) in the theme to those written by her/him on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard (SELS2.2, V 3.4, CS2.7).  The students look at the written version of the story and find similar 
sentences to those given by the teacher as examples (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.7).  The teacher then asks 

===== PDF_PAGE_960 =====
960
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
the students to discuss and list the common features in these sentences and what kind of things are used 
repeatedly and why they think they are used in that way (D3.1, D3.6, D3.10, SELS3.1, V3.3, V4.2, CS2.4, 
CS3.3). Students examine the teacher’s example sentences, find the similar sentences in the written version 
of the story and discuss them by making a list of similarities and repeated commonalities (D3.6, SELS3.2, 
V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.7). The teacher asks the pairs to say what they have found (D2.3, CS2.10). 
As the pairs say what they have found, the teacher writes them on the board and gives the class time to 
look at them and think about them (D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.3, CS2.10, CS2.16.1, CS3.3).  Then the teacher 
hands out a piece of paper and asks the students to make a rule about what they have noticed regarding 
the target structures. Students create a rule about the use of target grammatical structures of the theme 
by working in pairs and they read it to the class and give each other feedback on the rules (D3.1, SELS2.2, 
SELS3.3, V3.3, LS1, CS2.9, CS2.16.1). The teacher shows a sentence that explains the rule correctly and asks 
the students to check if their rules are correct or the teacher gives a table in which the rule for the language 
with the target grammatical structure is incomplete. She/He asks the students to complete it by working 
in pairs (D3.1, SELS2.2, V4.2). Then they check the rule as the whole class and reflect on their experiences 
on how and how much they have learnt (D2.4, SELS1.1, SELS1.3, V6.1, V10.3, LS1, CS2.15).  This process is 
applied again for the other target grammatical structures in the theme if there are any. These activities are 
evaluated as described in items (5), (8) and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS IN CONTEXT:  Students practise the use of the 
language including the target grammatical structures: The teacher asks the students to work on grammar 
tasks she/he assigns (D2.2, D2.3, V3.3, V3.4, CS2.13).  These tasks could be the ones that the teacher 
provides. The teacher shows some other contents in the form of a dialogue, a short paragraph, a short story, 
etc. with sentences including the target grammar structures and asks the students to find the sentences 
with the target grammatical structures in them and asks if they understand them easily (D3.2, D3.7, D3.10, 
CS2.13, CS2.20, CS3.3).  She/He facilitates some oral or written activities and exercises for the students 
to further practise the target grammatical structures in context in pairs or groups (SELS2.2). She/He also 
facilitates more fun activities and games in which students talk, act out, mime, write, etc. with pen and 
paper, digital, AI-based, etc. materials and contexts so that they can practise and consolidate the target 
grammatical structures by selecting and using them accurately, efficiently, and naturally in context (D2.5, 
D3.2, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, V4.4, LS2, CS2.13). They engage in several dialogic activities in which they share 
information, ideas and thoughts for communicating with their classmates. They exchange information and 
ideas to others by using target grammatical content (D3.5, SELS2.2, V3.4).  When the session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the grammar discovery and 
use process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.3, V6.1, LS6, CS2.15). They also give feedback to each other (D2.1, D2.4, 
V4.2, V10.3, SELS2.2). This is evaluated as described in items (5), (8) and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG8.2.R1
PREPARING FOR READING: The teacher facilitates reading activities throughout the theme “classroom life 
and learning” from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the theme in various forms 
and amounts as it is explained above (in the vocabulary section) in terms of how it is taught and when it 
needs to be clarified. Various reading styles such as silent reading, jigsaw reading and speed reading are 
used during the pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases. The ultimate aim of reading practice 
is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend 
and talk about the current content and related issues in a meaningful way (V3.2, LS1, CS3.3). Students are 
provided a new text(s) to practise their reading skills through the current theme. They look at the surrounding 
visual materials, the title of the text and other supportive elements to guess the topic of the new reading 

===== PDF_PAGE_961 =====
961
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
content and they make predictions to be checked after reading the text (D1.1, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS4, CS2.2, 
CS2.11, CS2.16.2).
ENG8.2.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING:  Students read the new reading text carefully 
to check their predictions made in the preparation session at the beginning of the lesson (SELS1.2, V3.4, 
LS1, CS2.8). Then they read the text very quickly (scanning) to check the main components and categories 
with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations that are provided by the 
teacher (V3.3, LS4, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.6) . They compare the components they have found in the text with 
those written by the teacher on the smart board/whiteboard related to the sub-themes of “preferences for 
different learning activities; preferences for different learning technologies” (D3.6, V10.1, V11.1, LS2, LS5, 
CS2.7). Students read the text very quickly to check that the main components correspond to the headings 
written by the teacher on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on the list (already provided 
by the teacher) at their desks (V3.4, LS7, CS2.8). The teacher could use different versions of the scanning 
activities as described in the “listening/watching-comprehension” section above. In this way, they can 
understand the text in general better with the help of scanning (CS2.16.1). They share the components with 
the whole class (SELS2.1) and then they discuss the accuracy of the results as a whole class (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.2, V4.2, LS1, CS2.8).
ENG8.2.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  Students read the new text silently in pairs in a jigsaw reading 
activity as they have done in the vocabulary session earlier (D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.1). During the reading session, 
they look out for new words whose meanings they do not know (if there are any, other than the target words 
previously covered in the listening/watching-comprehension and vocabulary recognition sessions) (CS2.6). 
They work on the new words in the same way as in the vocabulary sessions. Then they deal with the semantic 
meaning conveyed in the text through display questions, then semi-closed activities and then open-ended 
activities (V3.3, V6.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.6).  They deal with the meaning by using strategies from the closed 
to the open-ended range to understand the theme “classroom life and learning” in terms of the sub-themes 
of “preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different learning technologies” mean 
from different perspectives to build their own understandings (D3.6, D3.8, SELS3.1, CS2.13).  The teacher 
facilitates a number of activities to help the students improve their comprehension, synthesis and evaluation 
skills after applying the knowledge they have gained from the reading process (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, CS2.3, 
CS2.17, CS2.20). After this stage, they work on activities to connect their knowledge and skills they have 
acquired about the current content with CLIL (history, maths, science, etc.) and cultural issues to be able 
to enrich their perspectives on the current theme (D3.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V10.1, V11.1, LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.13, 
CS2.14). In this way, they will have the opportunity to develop their knowledge and language competence 
through reading. They can have the opportunity to develop their cognitive, emotional, cultural, social, and 
creative skills through the process of reading (SELS3.3, V7.2, CS2.20).
ENG8.2.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING PROCESS: Students reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation 
to the whole reading-comprehension process (SELS1.3). They talk about them individually and then share 
them with the whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15).  After the reflection and feedback 
session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, 
V4.3, V12.1, LS1).

===== PDF_PAGE_962 =====
962
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.2.W1.
PREPARATION FOR WRITING-EXPRESSION:  Students are facilitated throughout the theme with writing 
activities, from the first lesson to the last when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount of writing. At the beginning of the writing process, students recall their pre-existing 
knowledge about the current content to make a link between what they know and what they are going to 
write about (D3.2, SELS1.1, CS2.12). This includes examining all the audio/visual sources and elements 
provided for understanding the writing task (V3.2, LS1, CS2.2).
ENG8.2.W2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL:  Students listen (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the writing task they have been given (CS2.2). These are limited and short pieces of writing to see how the 
language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the written language, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “classroom life and learning”. 
Initially, they practise the language in a more controlled way, writing to repeat or simply explain what they 
have heard and seen and/ or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they 
try to understand how the language is used in the target content by examining the model/example writing 
carefully (V3.4, LS2, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2).  They try to understand and plan how they can convey the 
knowledge they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in 
relation to current content in their later free writing tasks (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, LS1).
ENG8.2.W3.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WRITTEN CONTENT: After working on a sample/model writing task, students 
begin to produce/construct similar tasks of their own (V16.1). They participate in several writing activities 
individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class (D2.3, SELS2.2, V4.1). Their products could range from 
writing a word to a phrase, a clause to a full sentence, a group of sentences to a short paragraph, an essay to 
a short story. These writing activities will help students to produce and display meaningful written language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme as in others (SELS2.1, LS1, CS2.13).
ENG8.2.W4.
PRACTISING BY PRODUCING WRITTEN CONTENT: Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
essays, diaries/journals, blogs, scripts for plays, documentaries, films, etc. to express their ideas, thoughts, 
and feelings in relation to the current topic (D1.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.20). They take part in 
individual or collaborative projects to improve their writing skills together with social, cultural, cognitive, and 
affective aspects (D1.4, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2).  Within this variety, they can find the opportunities to 
show how they can use the language that they have learnt to describe and comment on the current content 
for developing new ideas about them in different genres of writing, according to their potential needs for 
expressing themselves and communication with others (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V10.1, V11.1, LS5, CS2.14, CS3.3). 
Storification and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further writing practice (D2.5, 
LS9).
ENG8.2.W5.
PROCESS WRITING: Controlled writing of words, sentences and paragraphs turns to process writing with 
the support of the teacher’s and also peers’ feedback in the theme. This process is expanded and supported 
with additional activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, etc. to practise further by 
writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme in 

===== PDF_PAGE_963 =====
963
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). All 
the content is formed as contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests, 
and language level. Students improve their writing after reviewing the feedback they receive and this spiral, 
cyclical, and ongoing work becomes a progressive path for students (D3.1, SELS1.2, V12.3, LS1, CS3.1).
ENG8.2.W6.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students communicate their ideas, thoughts 
and feelings about the sub-themes of “preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different 
learning technologies” through their writing tasks (V10.1, V11.1, CS3.3). They can use AI-based technologies 
for various activities, by having access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital written materials 
and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways to interact and communicate with peers and/or other 
people inside and outside school by using the language including target words, language chunks, and the 
social language expressions for the relevant theme in their writing (D3.3, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V11.1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.20). All writing activities can be evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (5), (9), (10), (11) and (12) 
in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG8.2.W7.
REFLECTING THROUGH WRITING : The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas 
and feelings in relation to the whole writing-expression process (SELS1.3) and students talk about them 
individually and share them with the whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15). After the reflection 
and feedback session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas (SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1, LS1).
SPEAKING-EXPRESSION
Practising through speaking from controlled to communicative stages: The teacher facilitates speaking 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the last. Speaking activities support students’ 
learning and help them to produce meaningful language for personal expression and communication with 
others, by using the language including the target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions of the theme (V3.4, V4.5, LS1, LS5).
ENG8.2.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  In the beginning, students recall their background knowledge about the 
theme through listening/watching and/or reading and then they talk about it (SELS1.1, CS2.12). Students 
practise the target language items in a controlled way, by saying, repeating, explaining what they hear and 
see in the context, for instance, in the introductory digital story and the listening and reading sections in 
different contexts (SELS3.2). Then they can expand their language use and practice in each section by 
increasing the amount of speaking they do (D1.3, V3.4, LS1, CS2.13).
ENG8.2.S2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL : Students listen (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the speaking task they have been given (CS2.2). These are limited and short pieces of speaking to see how 
the language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the spoken language, 
after hearing them through listening activities in the theme. Initially, they practise the language in a more 
controlled way, repeating some utterances, simply explaining what they have heard and seen, and/or 
what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to understand how 
the language is used in the target content by examining the speaking model/example carefully (V3.3, V10.1, 
V11.1, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge they 

===== PDF_PAGE_964 =====
964
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to the 
current theme in their later free speaking tasks (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, V3.4, LS5).
ENG8.2.S3.
PRODUCTION OF MEANINGFUL AND ACCURATE CONTENT:  In the later stages of the lessons, the teacher 
prepares new contexts for the students in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading the language 
including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme “classroom life and learning”  
in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS3.2, V7.2, LS9). These newly created contents are 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. 
They participate in such speaking activities individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class (D3.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.20).
ENG8.2.S4.
CONSTRUCTING MEANINGFUL SPOKEN CONTENT:  Students produce various spoken content and their 
products could range from producing a simple utterance including a word to a phrase, a clause to a full 
sentence, a group of sentences to a short speech, a dialogue to a spoken presentation (SELS3.3, V3.4, 
CS2.20). These speaking activities will help students to produce accurate and meaningful spoken language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme “classroom life and learning”  as in others (D3.6, SELS2.1, CS2.13).
ENG8.2.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Collaborative and communicative activities 
are designed and used to revise and consolidate the whole theme “classroom life and learning” on the sub-
themes of “preferences for different learning activities; preferences for different learning technologies” 
(V4.5, LS5, CS2.13, CS2.14) . Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and extensively 
used for further speaking practice throughout the theme (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.1, V4.2, LS4, LS9) . 
Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as 
dialogues, speeches, short texts, presentations, etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people inside and/or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
chunks, and social language expressions for the current theme (SELS2.3, V3.4, V7.1, V7.2, LS1, CS2.20). AI-
based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They 
can also produce digital materials and projects for speaking at school and at home through recordings (D3.3, 
SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V7.3, V11.1, LS2). All these speaking activities can be evaluated as described in items 
(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), (9), (10), and (11) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.
ENG8.2.S6.
REFLECTING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students are encouraged to reflect individually or collaboratively in 
groups on their own individual learning (SELS1.3) or on their collaborative learning in pairs, groups or as a 
whole class collaboratively (D2.3, SELS2.2, CS2.15). The activities will help and support students in these 
feedback and reflection sessions. Their feedback is shared with peers and the teacher and takes the form 
of interactive and ongoing feedback that can help their own improvement (SELS1.2, SELS2.1) and also they 
contribute to the improvement of their peers in their learning processes (V4.1, V4.3, V12.1, V12.3, LS1).

===== PDF_PAGE_965 =====
965
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To discuss preferences for learning activities and technologies in English by using the target 
vocabulary and grammar.
Activity 1: Find Someone Who
Students move around the classroom to ask their classmates questions, find people who match the specific 
description of learning activities and technologies, and note their names down. The teacher prepares the 
worksheet with 15-20 words or phrases and students walk around the classroom to ask and answer these 
questions, e.g., “Do you prefer…...? I prefer….”. The students are encouraged to ask follow-up questions to 
their friends, e.g., “Can you give one/two clue(s) about your preference?” After completing the worksheet, 
the teacher starts a whole-class discussion to share and discuss findings. Each student reports as many 
interesting findings as they like. The rest of the class listens to their friends and tries to determine if they 
have the same names for the same learning activities and technologies. The teacher may encourage 
students to ask follow-up questions to the reporting student.  The teacher also utters a student’s name and 
asks the rest of the class to report their findings about him/her. The teacher provides constructive feedback 
on students’ performances in terms of accurate and adequate use of target vocabulary and grammar and 
their presentation. Students write down one thing they did well and one thing they want to improve for next 
time. They also give a ‘stars’ rating (1-5) for their peer’s performance, followed by a short explanation: “I gave 
you 4 stars because your pronunciation is good, but you should give more details”. Students reflect on their 
thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To discuss preferences for learning activities and technologies in English by using the target 
vocabulary and the grammar.
Activity 1: Find Someone Who
The teacher prepares a worksheet with 15–20 phrases related to learning activities and technologies, e.g., 
“working in pairs”, “using digital tools”, and “learning through games”. Students walk around the classroom, 
asking their classmates to find people whose preferences match specific items on the worksheet. They 
ask and answer questions, e.g., “Do you prefer learning through games?” and “I prefer learning through 
games because it’s fun”. To make conversations more dynamic, students are encouraged to ask follow-
up questions, e.g., “Can you give an example of a game you like?” or “Why do you like this activity?” Once 
the worksheet is completed, the teacher facilitates a whole-class discussion where students share their 
findings, reporting what they’ve learned about their classmates, e.g., “I found out that ….. likes using 
flashcards to study vocabulary”, and the rest of the class tries to guess who that might be and why. The 
teacher provides constructive feedback on students’ performances in terms of accurate and adequate use 
of target vocabulary and grammar and their presentation. Students complete the sentence beginnings to 
reflect on one thing they did well and one thing they want to improve for next time. They also give a ‘stars’ 
rating (1-5) for their peer’s performance and a short explanation by completing sentence beginnings, e.g., “I 
gave you ________ because your __________ is good, but you should ___________”. Students reflect on their 
thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_966 =====
966
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 3: PERSONAL LIFE & WELL-BEING
Sub-themes: Mobile phones and their impact on health 
and social life; personal preferences for films and visual 
arts
This theme is centred on the concept of “personal life and well-being” and 
covers the sub-themes of “mobile phones and their impact on health and social 
life; personal preferences for films and visual arts”. These components (sub-
themes) are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised 
use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and 
social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed 
to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within and 
beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 14 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.4. Self-Efficacy, D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.1. Empathy, 
D2.2. Responsibility, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, D2.5. Playfulness,  D3.1. 
Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.4. Seeking the Truth, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning, 
D3.9. Doubting, D3.10. Critical Perspective
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill        
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_967 =====
967
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Atatürk’s Principles and History of Revolution, Physical Education 
and Sports, Visual Arts, Music, Counselling and Career Planning, Technology and 
Design
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering 
Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, 
CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. 
Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation 
Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.18. Argumentation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing 
Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.2. Problem 
Solving Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_968 =====
968
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 8 is structured based on inductive approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.8.3.L1.  Students can prepare and get ready for listening (to)/watching about the current content on 
“personal life and well-being with mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; 
personal preferences for films and visual arts”.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience about the current theme and 
content to recall their background knowledge by investigating it carefully.
b) Students identify significant and necessary relationships and connections between their pre-
existing knowledge, their past experience and the clues to the current content by responding 
to meaningful questions about it (without speaking Turkish or using a translation).
c) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by using their pre-existing 
knowledge and past experience of the content.
d) Students make rational predictions about the current content by looking at the supplementary 
visual elements provided. 
ENG.8.3.L2. Students can bring together the information in the current content on “personal life and well-
being with mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films 
and visual arts”.
a) Students identify the main topic of the current content in general by listening (to)/watching it 
as a whole in its context. 
b) Students recognise the significant details and basic components of the current content within 
the whole by listening (to) and watching the whole content carefully to notice them.
ENG.8.3.L3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “personal life and 
well-being with mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences 
for films and visual arts”.
a) Students check their initial predictions about the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between their self-predictions and the clues provided as visuals surrounding 
the content.
b) Students make significant and necessary classifications in the current content that affect the 
meaning of the generally perceived content.
c) Students make significant and necessary comparisons in the generally perceived current 
content to highlight differences between two or more different things by using visuals, ensuring 
clarity, and meaning.
d) Students recognise significant branching, linear or spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content.
e) Students make essential inferences and deductions to understand the meaning of the 
generally perceived current content better.
f) Students strongly recognise the holistic meaning formed by the components, comparisons, 
classifications, and details related to the current content.
g) Students construct a detailed understanding of the meaning of the current content through 
prior classifications, comparisons, and inferences/deductions.
h) Students position, internalise, and personalise current content in an individualised, age-
appropriate, and level-appropriate way.

===== PDF_PAGE_969 =====
969
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.8.3.L4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to 
the listening (to)/watching process about the current content on “personal life and well-being 
with mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films 
and visual arts” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students individually convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings 
that are critically reviewed in relation to the current listening (to)/watching contents and the 
process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current listening (to)/watching content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce new audio/visual products individually by revising their personal work after 
participating in reflective activities related to the listening (to)/watching process of the current 
content.
ENG.8.3.P1.  Students can select and use target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases, clauses, and sentences in utterances authentically, 
naturally, and accurately in the current content about “personal life and well-being with mobile 
phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and visual 
arts” to develop holistic and conscious pronunciation skills after recognising them in context. 
a) Students recognise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases and sentences in utterances within the current content by 
listening (to)/ watching it, first as a whole and then with pauses.
b) Students repeat utterances, including target sentences, clauses, phrases, and words with 
target theme-specific sounds by considering phonological aspects such as pronunciation and 
intonation accurately and naturally in the content several times as a whole class and then in 
groups and individually.
c) Students talk about the current content by taking part in small group conversations by paying 
attention to select and use accurate phonological aspects such as pronunciation, intonation, 
stress, and other features as they are understood.
d) Students reflect personally on their pronunciation and other target phonological aspects such 
as intonation after recording and listening to group conversations about the target content.
e) Students evaluate feedback from others and their personal feedback and reflection by 
listening to or watching the audio/visual content again to check for accuracy.
f) Students utilise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of utterances including target sounds of the current content, appropriately, effectively, 
accurately, naturally, automatically, and consciously when communicating with others in 
different contexts.
ENG.8.3.R1.  Students can prepare for reading the content on “personal life and well-being with mobile 
phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and visual 
arts” efficiently and effectively.
a) Students recall and activate significant pre-existing knowledge and past experiences that can 
be related to the current theme and content through careful exploration. 
b) Students recognise significant relationships between pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to current content.
c) Students make strong preliminary predictions about the current content based on explored 
and recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring and examining the 
audio-visual clues in relation to it.

===== PDF_PAGE_970 =====
970
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.8.3.R2.  Students can bring information together about the current content on “personal life and well-
being with mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for 
films and visual arts” through skimming, scanning and detailed reading.
a) Students skim the current content by looking very quickly and carefully at the surrounding 
visual materials to identify its general focus.
b)  Students scan the current content by reading it silently and quickly to find key and major 
components.
c) Students read the current content again silently and carefully to examine any significant 
semantic and structural details.
d) Students examine the semantic details in the content carefully to check the accuracy of their 
initial predictions.
ENG.8.3.R3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “personal 
life and well-being with mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; personal 
preferences for films and visual arts”.
a) Students classify significant and necessary elements of the current content in a meaningful 
way.
b) Students compare significant and key elements of the current content with each other or with 
similar ones in a meaningful way.
c) Students recognise significant and basic spiral, causal, and logical relationships in the current 
content through careful examination and analysis.
d) Students make meaningful inferences from information in the current content by examining 
it critically.
e) Students internalise their meaningful inferences from information in the current content in an 
individualised way appropriate to their age and language level.
ENG.8.3.R4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related 
to the reading process about the current content on “personal life and well-being with mobile 
phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and visual 
arts” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content 
and process with others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
ENG.8.3.V1.  Students can select and use target vocabulary efficiently, effectively, and accurately, based 
on the current content about “personal life and well-being with mobile phones and their impact 
on health and social life; personal preferences for films and visual arts” after recognising them 
in context and developing their conscious and inductive vocabulary learning skills.
a) Students make predictions about the main topic of the current content by identifying “general 
contextual clues” from the visual, audio, and written preparation materials provided during the 
“listening/watching for gist” and/or reading for “skimming” sessions.
b) Students check the accuracy of the predictions related to the “general contextual clue” by 
listening to, watching, and/or reading the audio, visual, and/or written content in context.
c) Students search the target audio/visual, and/or written content by scanning to find key 
components of the theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_971 =====
971
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students listen/watch the content carefully and/or read it silently to identify and underline/
circle target unknown words.
e) Students separate target (key-active) words from the other (non-key-passive) words in the 
target content.
f) Students examine relevant target words, phrases, and expressions in the current content to 
understand how and where they are used.
g)  Students determine paragraph context clues to identify the topics of the parts/paragraphs 
containing unknown target words.
h)  Students discuss the meaning of the target words by finding indirect sentence context clues 
in the assigned sentences of the parts/paragraphs of the content.
i)  Students determine the correct meanings of the target words in the current content in pairs 
or groups by comparing the meanings/definitions proposed.
j) Students confirm the accuracy of the meanings/definitions of the target words in the current 
content by consulting with the teacher, the class and/or by using printed or digital dictionaries.
k)  Students make use of the target words of the current theme in a range of semantically 
associated contextual activities and tasks accurately, naturally, authentically, and 
appropriately.
l) Students make use of the target words of the current theme accurately, naturally, appropriately 
and effectively through careful selection when communicating with others.
ENG.8.3.G1.  Students can select and use target grammatical language items efficiently, effectively, and 
accurately, based on the current content about “personal life and well-being with mobile phones 
and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and visual arts”, after 
recognising them in context and developing their conscious and inductive grammaring skills 
through consciousness-raising and discovery.
a)  Students listen to, watch, and/or read the audio, visual, and written current content presented 
in context that introduces the general use of the target language structures in the current 
theme.
b) Students examine example sentences provided by the teacher or instructional materials 
including target grammatical items to see how the target grammatical structure(s) of the 
target theme is/are used to construct a meaning or contribute to meaning.
c) Students analyse current audio, visual, and/or written content presented in context to identify 
sentences similar to those provided as examples.
d) Students find the commonalities between the sentences identified and those exemplified by 
the teacher or materials through careful comparison in pairs and/or groups.
e) Students discover the characteristics of the commonalities in the sentences in the current 
content by discussing them in pairs or groups as an awareness/consciousness-raising activity.
f) Students formulate rule(s) about the same/target grammar structure(s) of the current theme 
based on their observations and discussions in pairs or groups.
g)  Students engage in contextual activities on the use of target grammatical structures 
(grammaring) of the current theme to explain and justify the grammar rule(s) they have 
discovered.
h)  Students practise to consolidate their understanding of the target grammar that they 
discovered by selecting accurate and meaningful items in meaningful and contextualised 
activities.
i) Students produce accurate and unique verbal or written content by using target grammar 
consciously and in a natural way, without thinking about the rules.

===== PDF_PAGE_972 =====
972
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
j) Students produce new spoken/written content by using the target grammatical structures 
efficiently, authentically, automatically, and naturally in context when communicating with 
others without thinking about rules.
ENG.8.3.W1.  Students can prepare for writing efficiently and accurately based on the current content 
about “personal life and well-being with mobile phones and their impact on health and social 
life; personal preferences for films and visual arts”.
a) Students relate pre-existing knowledge and experiences from initial listening, watching, and 
reading processes to current content by examining and activating them.
b) Students understand what the current writing task requires in terms of content and purpose in 
relation to the current content accurately by applying pre-existing knowledge and experiences, 
following guided instructions.
ENG.8.3.W2.  Students can analyse and understand a provided model to guide them in producing similar 
writing tasks related to the content on “personal life and well-being with mobile phones and 
their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and visual arts”.
a) Students grasp the significant and basic components of the content in the model/sample 
provided for the assigned writing task, including word selection and use, grammar selection 
and use, and other details such as type, style, and meaning as required.
ENG.8.3.W3.  Students can construct new written content on “personal life and well-being with mobile 
phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and visual 
arts” based on their understanding of the model(s) provided.
a) Students share their ideas and thoughts by brainstorming through collaborative discussion to 
generate ideas for the new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current 
theme.
b) Students plan how the knowledge and ideas generated during the brainstorming session can 
be applied to their new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current theme.
c) Students conduct preliminary research relevant to the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) 
writing task on the current content, considering the type of writing, age appropriateness, and 
language level.
d) Students produce a well-organised and detailed draft relevant to the (prepared and/or 
unprepared) type of writing and appropriate for the age and language level.
e) Students organise and develop contextual materials relevant to the type of the assigned task 
(prepared and/or unprepared) and appropriate to age and language level.
f) Students modify the content they produce for the assigned writing task in a coherent and 
meaningful way, consistent with the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) type of writing, 
and appropriate to the age and language level.
ENG.8.3.W4.  Students can practise producing written content based on the current theme “personal 
life and well-being with mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; personal 
preferences for films and visual arts”.
a) Students present relevant supportive materials appropriate to the assigned (prepared and/
or unprepared) writing task, considering the type of writing and appropriate to the age and 
language level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and strategies for the assigned (prepared 
and/or unprepared) writing task, considering its writing type and appropriate to their age and 
language level.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language structures accurately and appropriately 
in their writing tasks, by selecting necessary and appropriate ones in line with the assigned 
type of writing and appropriate to the age and language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_973 =====
973
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students express their messages about the current content clearly to the reader in the 
assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task.
ENG.8.3.W5.  Students can engage in the process of writing related to the content on “personal life and well-
being with mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for 
films and visual arts”.
a) Students review the feedback from the teacher and/or peers critically on their prepared and/
or unprepared writing task(s).
b) Students revise to reorganise the written content of their prepared and/or unprepared task 
based on the feedback received from the teacher and/or peers.
c) Students refine and develop their written content produced for their prepared/unprepared 
writing task through the iterative feedback process.
ENG.8.3.W6.  Students can reconstruct their writing about the current theme on “personal life and well-
being with mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for 
films and visual arts” to communicate effectively about it.
a) Students adapt and use individually internalised information in current or similar content by 
selecting and reorganising it meaningfully in written form as necessary when communicating 
with other people in different contexts.
b) Students exchange information and ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge and content with others.
ENG.8.3.W7.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the writing 
process about the current content on “personal life and well-being with mobile phones and 
their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and visual arts” in relation 
to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings they review 
critically in relation to their current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current writing-expression content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce their new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current writing-expression content and process.
ENG.8.3.S1.  Students can prepare themselves to speak meaningfully, fluently, and efficiently about the 
current content on “personal life and well-being with mobile phones and their impact on health 
and social life; personal preferences for films and visual arts”.
a) Students relate current content by analysing pre-existing knowledge and experiences from 
earlier listening, watching, and reading sessions to associate them with the current content.
ENG.8.3.S2.  Students can analyse and understand the model content related to “personal life and well-
being with mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for 
films and visual arts” to support the production of spoken language.
a) Students grasp what the provided model/example is about with the help of audio, visual, and/
or written elements after listening, watching, and/or reading the current content.
ENG.8.3.S3.  Students can produce meaningful and accurate spoken content related to the current theme 
on “personal life and well-being with mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; 
personal preferences for films and visual arts”.
a) Students recognise which form and type of spoken content is expected and assigned based on 
the model/example about the current theme for both prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations through careful examination.

===== PDF_PAGE_974 =====
974
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students conduct preliminary research on the expected and assigned content to be produced 
for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students develop a draft outline in accordance with the assigned prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations as presented in the model/example, appropriate to the age and language 
level based on the current theme.
d) Students organise supplementary audio-visual materials in accordance with the assigned 
task as presented in the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations 
and appropriate to their age and language level. 
e) Students organise information related to the current content to be presented, appropriate to 
the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
f) Students critically review their prepared presentation content for accuracy, coherence, and 
appropriateness to audience and context in prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.8.3.S4.  Students can construct meaningful spoken content about “personal life and well-being with 
mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and 
visual arts” through efficient and meaningful practice.
a) Students make spoken content clear and understandable to listeners by selecting and using 
style and form appropriate to age and language level in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
b) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using materials appropriate to the 
context, age, language level, style, and type of discourse, similar to those presented in the 
model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using target vocabulary and language 
structures similar and/or appropriate to those presented in the model/example considering 
their age, language level, context, style, and type of discourse for prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations.
d) Students convey relevant explicit, implicit, and/or complex messages related to the current 
content clearly in context to the listeners by using appropriate material and body language in 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
e) Students convey their messages about the current content clearly to the listeners by 
incorporating all the necessary semantic elements in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
ENG.8.3.S5.  Students can reconstruct the information about “personal life and well-being with mobile 
phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and visual 
arts” when communicating with others.
a) Students use the same or similar information presented in the current content in verbal or 
written forms in different contexts by reorganising it meaningfully, accurately, effectively, 
efficiently, functionally, and individually as required.
b) Students engage in verbal and/or written communication by sharing the reconstructed 
meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.8.3.S6.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the speaking 
process about the current content on “personal life and well-being with mobile phones and 
their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and visual arts” in relation 
to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students reveal their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they review critically 
in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_975 =====
975
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students share their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
critically review in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process with 
others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_976 =====
976
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
PERSONAL LIFE & WELL BEING
Sub-themes: mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and 
visual arts
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for mobile phones and their impact on health and social life: 
Nouns: An advantage, an argument, a rate, a smartphone, a need, a reply, use, a user, usage, an application, 
an app, a screen.
Verbs: To accept, to allow, to avoid, to cause, to prevent, to refuse, to text, to reply, to use.
Adjectives: Mobile, worried, electronic, online.
Adverbs: Definitely.
Conjunction: While.
Vocabulary for personal preferences for films and visual arts:
Nouns: An expression, a character, acting, special effects, a context, a personality, a decision, a taste.
Verbs and phrases: To be a fan of, to enjoy, to prefer, to film, to care for.
Adjectives: Ordinary, adult.
Adverbs: Rather, mostly, completely (all).
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Past Simple Tense: (She texted her reply to the argument rather quickly).
-Question tags for the Simple Past Tense: (He accepted the need for an online survey, didn’t he?)
-Used to: (We used to care for ordinary characters in older films).
-Past simple of “can” or “can’t” for ability: (She could avoid causing arguments when she was younger).
-Polite request with “could” and “couldn’t”: (Could you reply to the rate of smartphone users, please?)
- “Shall” for suggestions: (Shall we avoid using electronic devices during the argument?)
- “Should” for giving advice: (You should prevent mobile distractions while studying).
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations:  “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will be 
age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A table 
for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
Use of the Simple Past Tense: Describing completed actions or events in the past.
Use of question tags: Seeking confirmation or agreement about a past statement.
Use of “used to”: Expressing habitual actions or states in the past.
Use of the Past Simple of “can” or “can’t” for ability: Indicating abilities or lack of abilities in the past.
Use of polite requests with “could” and “couldn’t”: Making polite requests in formal or informal contexts.
Use of “shall” for suggestions: Offering suggestions or making proposals.
Use of “should” for giving advice: Providing recommendations or expressing opinions about what is right.

===== PDF_PAGE_977 =====
977
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Target Social Language in Use:
He’s a total phone zombie!
The new superhero film is a blockbuster hit this summer! 
This film will keep you on the edge of your seat!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
 Intonation of questions and question tags
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “personal life and well-being” and its components such as “mobile phones 
and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and visual arts” is present in almost 
all languages. People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and 
transfer it to their new language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what 
“personal life and well-being” and its components such as “mobile phones and their impact on health and 
social life; personal preferences for films and visual arts” means but will not know how to say them in a foreign 
language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in 
their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more easily in a 
foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts:
Mobile phones, health, social life, mobile phones’ impact on health and social  life, personal preferences, 
films, visual arts, personal preferences for films and visual arts.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will prepare a collage about their favourite films and visual arts. In 
this collage, they will gather pictures, drawings, and printed images of scenes from their favourite films and 
artworks. They can add short captions or descriptions explaining why they love these films and visual arts, 
how they make them feel, and what they enjoy about them. They will also write a few sentences about how 
watching films or enjoying art helps them relax, learn new things, or express their feelings. The assignment 
will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “personal life and well-being” and its components such as 
“mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and visual arts”. As 
they are lower secondary school students in year 8 (eight), they can know what “personal life and well-being” 
and its components such as “mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences 
for films and visual arts” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people who start to learn 
a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and transfer it to their 
new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these things in a foreign language if 
this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own 
language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a foreign language, in this case 
English.
As they are students in year 8 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about 
“personal life and well-being” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/
or years. These grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning 
of the year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the 
current theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.

===== PDF_PAGE_978 =====
978
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “personal life and well-being” and its components such as “mobile phones and their 
impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and visual arts”. Recalling and practising with 
relevant vocabulary and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be 
helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “personal life and well-
being”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary and grammatical items from the 
previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, 
their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to 
understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the current 
theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to 
facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by 
rubrics throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students are asked to recall the concept of “personal life and well-being” by remembering their pre-existing 
background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with 
the current activities in the theme in English without saying anything in Turkish and without translating 
anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English. To remind them 
of their pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, many materials 
such as “a scene from a short film, a passage from a book, a part from a personal diary (journal),  a part of a 
story, a collection of pictures, a part of an animation, a poster, an excerpt from a video etc.” related to this 
content can be shared with the class before the main teaching/learning flow begins. The materials about 
the current concept would give a general idea of the theme. Students are work on the material according to 
the instructions and try to grasp it. The teacher tries to check if they have an idea about the topic of the new 
theme with several activities. When they have finished working on them, the teacher asks them in English 
if they have understood what has been in the material. She/He asks them to write a related words that they 
already know (learnt in previous years) in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/ box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways for checking their comprehension could be tried by the teacher.
They wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the theme, the digital 
introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme “personal life and well-being”  in the classroom, to prepare the students 
emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as 
an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their 
well-being (D1.5, V12.1, V13.4).This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/
singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote, 
a very short story, watching a pantomime/online story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current 
theme and does not require any knowledge of the current theme in English (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.4, V7.2, 
V13.2, LS4). That is only for relaxation and preparation for the lesson.
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills are used in an integrated way around a central topic “personal life and well-being” and the 
sub-themes of “mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and 
visual arts”, allowing students to build background knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to 
productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are 
integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive 
to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely linked way that means 
each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development and to increase communicative 

===== PDF_PAGE_979 =====
979
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
competence. The theme “personal life and well-being” is characterised by a balanced integration of all the 
skills, where students engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) 
and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their grammar, 
vocabulary and phonological selection and use skills.
ENG8.3.L1.
PREPARATION FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students prepare to access the introduction to the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to remember what they have done during the “establishing links” 
session for recalling background knowledge about the related concept where they watched a short film 
scene prepared for that section (which is not a part of the introductory digital story of the theme) (D3.2, 
V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4).  They remember what they already know about the content to prepare themselves to 
work on guessing the topic of the current theme (V7.3, V10.1, V13.3, LS1, LS5). They prepare to access the 
main materials of the theme for having connections by making predictions based on the short film in the 
“establishing links” session (D3.8, V3.3, LS1, LS4).
ENG8.3. L2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER BY LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students collect “general context clues” to 
understand the whole content by looking at visual clues before listening (to)/watching. The teacher asks the 
students to look at any visual material such as pictures, posters, and realia related to the current content to 
identify the topic of the content and to answer the question “What is the whole content about?” (D3.6, V7.3, 
V10.1, V13.3, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.2) . They can realise that there might be different elements related to this 
concept (D2.1, V4.5). The teacher asks them to look at the visuals quickly to make predictions about the 
topic of the whole theme by using the “listening (to)/watching for gist” strategy before listening/watching 
the main visual material of the theme, which is the introductory digital story (D3.8, V4.5, LS1, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.11). The teacher asks the students to read the title of the theme and asks them to brainstorm by thinking 
about which words they already know and which words come to mind in connection with the title (D3.4, LS2, 
CS2.12, CS2.16.2). She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new/target words they do not know 
at this stage of the lesson. She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity to guess the general 
topic/theme of the context by using the words they already know and that there will be time to work on the 
new words of the current content later (D1.4, V12.2). At this stage, some guessing games can be played to 
guess the main topic of the current content/theme by using the clues from the additional visuals such as 
pictures, posters, etc. related to the content, prepared and produced by the teacher, by using web 2.0 tools 
(D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG8.3.L3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  Students identify and recognise the topic of the 
current theme by listening (to)/watching the introductory digital story that provides a context for the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen (to)/watch the introductory digital story to recognise the 
topic of the theme in general (This is a kind of preparation to work on the target key vocabulary in the later 
stages of the lesson(s) (D3.2, V3.4). The teacher asks the students to recall the work done with visuals (the 
scene from a short film) in the “establishing links” session about the current context shown earlier during the 
listening (to)/ watching session (D3.2, LS2). Students watch the digital introductory story and consolidate 
the identification of the target theme as a whole (CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that 
the students can hear/ see the context as a whole and understand the theme holistically (D3.1, V7.3, V10.1, 
V13.3, LS2, LS4, LS5, LS9).
MAKING MEANING THROUGH THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE THEME BY LISTENING/W ATCHING:  
Students find and identify the main components of the current content by listening (to)/watching the 
context quickly through scanning. The teacher organises a scanning activity to find out the components as 

===== PDF_PAGE_980 =====
980
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
the basic and most important details of the current content through the introductory digital story to help 
students learn and know more about the current theme. She/He asks the students to listen and watch the 
story again without stopping, by scanning/looking for any relevant words or concepts that are heard in the 
story (D3.6, V3.4, LS2, LS4, LS7).  The teacher hands out a sheet to the students on which there is a list of 
words/phrases, etc. to tick, circle or underline. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard through 
watching the story very quickly without stopping. The teacher could apply different versions of scanning 
activities such as finding important elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which 
elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, LS1, CS2.4). In this 
way, they will be able to understand the story in general through the main elements and components by 
eliminating the irrelevant ones. Students share with the whole class the words and components they have 
found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the teacher to them (D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.4). Then they 
discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class (SELS2.2, CS2.8). This is evaluated as described in 
items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After having 
watched the introductory digital story, the teacher places five headings on the smart board/whiteboard/
blackboard which are on the target vocabulary list of the related theme as clues to the components of the 
current theme (D3.7, V7.3, V10.1, V13.3, LS5, LS9). She/He places a corresponding picture next to each 
component and writes the name of each heading. She/He guides students to understand the heading of each 
category with the help of pictures. The teacher asks the students to work with the words they already know 
during this phase of the lesson (SELS1.2). Students work on these categories with the help of the scenes 
from the introductory digital story (D3.6, LS2, LS4).  The teacher reads the headings aloud a few times by 
pointing to the corresponding pictures on the board and the students repeat them. Then the students say 
the headings all together. For working on the sub-themes of “mobile phones and their impact on health and 
social life; personal preferences for films and visual arts” further, the teacher asks volunteers to go to the 
board and choose the picture (already provided by the teacher) to stick/pin/ drag it on the white/black board 
or the smart board (if the teacher asks) (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.2, V3.4, V20.4, LS2, LS4). Then, they say the 
headings (components) together as a whole class. In this way, the main components of the theme “personal 
life and well-being” are introduced to the students in English (LS5). At this stage, the meanings of the target 
words are not studied., but the categorisation of the basic components contributes to their recognition of 
the concept in general. The teacher could ask the students to decide which words in the introductory digital 
story they do not know and to note them while reading the text later in the reading session (D1.2, D1.6, D3.8, 
SELS1.1, V3.4). This could be evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (6) (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. All this work helps them understand the main 
categories through classifications and also the inferences they make while listening to and watching the 
introductory digital story and/or examining the picture related to the content. In this way, they recognise and 
comprehend the main concept as a whole through categorisation, comparison, and inference  (D3.6, D3.7, 
CS2.5, V3.3, LS2, LS4, LS7).
ENG8.3.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS: Students check the accuracy of their prior guesses, 
reflect on their ideas and feelings about the listening/watching session, and give feedback to each other. 
After the students listen (to)/watch the introductory digital story to find the main components of the theme, 
the teacher asks them whether their guesses they made during the “establishing links” session, looking at 
visuals session, and their first listening (to)/watching session have been correct (D3.8, V4.2, V4.3, LS2, LS4). 
As they have already seen a scene from a short film created about the concept of the current theme, during 
the “establishing links” session earlier, and looked at some supplementary visuals (pictures, the title of the 
theme) and also they saw the picture related to the introductory digital story they can easily answer what the 
current theme is about and that their guesses were correct (D3.4, V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). The teacher 
asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole listening (to)/
watching process and students talk about them individually (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole class  
(D2.3, SELS.2.1, V4.2). After the reflection and feedback session, they talk again about the components of 
the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their ideas (SELS2.2, V4.2, V10.3).

===== PDF_PAGE_981 =====
981
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.3.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Students recognise the pronunciation and other phonological 
aspects of target utterances, including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen (to)/watch an extract from the introductory digital story as 
the main context for noticing the target phonological elements (LS1, LS2, LS4).  She/He asks them to pay 
attention to the target pronunciation and/or other phonological aspects in the current content. The teacher 
asks them to notice how the target phonological aspects are used in context. Starting with the extract from 
the digital story, students go on with other contextual examples and activities to hear and understand the 
use of target elements in context (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION (AND OTHER PHONOLOGICAL ASPECTS):  Students 
select and use accurate, natural, and authentic target pronunciation and other phonological aspects of the 
target utterances including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme “personal 
life and well-being”. After recognition activities, students repeat the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme aloud a few times as a whole class with accurate 
and natural pronunciation and other phonological aspects after listening (to)/watching the recordings that 
the teacher has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes or some other AI-based technologies 
(D3.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2). To help the students pronounce the target utterances including sentences, clauses, 
phrases, words, and sounds accurately, the teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as 
showing the target utterance to the students and they say it or letting them listen to the recording, then 
turning off the recording randomly and students say the utterances they hear from the recording (D3.2, 
D3.7, D2.3). Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one 
out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound exercises by getting help from 
AI technologies  (D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2, LS4).  Along with the target utterances, the target 
sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are also practised in the same ways. This 
is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) as described in the section1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7).
FURTHER PRACTICE OF THE TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Students practise pronunciation with further 
activities for practice, consolidation, feedback and reflection. The teacher could use tape recording and 
feedback techniques. Students read aloud and record a text with the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme   provided by the teacher, at home (D1.2, D1.6, 
D2.3, SELS3.1, V4.1, V5.1, LS2, LS5).  They bring their recording(s) to school. First, they listen to the correct 
pronunciation of the text, provided by the teacher, in class. Then they listen to the recordings of individual 
students. During or after listening to the texts recorded by the students at home, the students give self-
feedback or peer feedback on the pronunciation of the words in the recordings (D2.4, D3.6, SELS1.3, 
SELS2.2, V4.1, V12.1, V14.1, LS1, LS5) . If available, a different version of the recording technique could be 
applied in the class. The teacher asks the students to discuss, say/talk about something, which they already 
know, related to the theme. Groups take turns to talk and the rest of the class listens (D2.3, D2.4, SELS2.2). 
During this session, the teacher records their discussions. After each group’s performance, the class listens 
to the recording for pronunciation and everyone gives feedback on it, including the individual students who 
have spoken during the discussion (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS1).  The teacher can get 
help from AI-based technologies for these activities if available. Students’ performances are evaluated as 
explained in items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
pronunciation process and students talk about them individually (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole 
class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS2, CS2.15). After the reflection and feedback 
session, they talk again about the components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their 
ideas (SELS1.2, V3.3, V6.2, V10.3, LS1, LS2).

===== PDF_PAGE_982 =====
982
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.3.V1
PREPARATION FOR THE WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To scan for finding the main components 
of the theme “personal life and well-being”, the teacher asks the students to listen to and watch the 
introductory digital story to remember the topic of content mentioned in the previous listening/watching 
sessions. The teacher also asks them to check their predictions made in the first listening/watching session 
at the beginning of the lessons on the current theme once more again (D3.8, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, 
LS7). Then the teacher asks the students to read the relevant parts of the written version of the introductory 
digital story provided by the teacher by scanning (reading very quickly) to check the main components and 
categories with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations with the 
headings that the teacher has previously written on the smart board/white board/blackboard in relation to 
the main components of the theme “personal life and well-being”  (D3.7, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.4, CS2.8). Students read the written extract from the story very quickly to check the main components 
corresponding to the headings that the teacher has written on the board and then they tick/circle/underline 
them on the list (already provided by the teacher) at their seats (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4). The teacher could apply 
different versions of scanning activities such as finding important components, categories, and elements on 
a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever 
she/he likes (LS1, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.8). In this way, they can understand the story in general better with the 
help of reading this time after the listening/watching sessions held earlier through the main elements and 
components by eliminating the irrelevant ones (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, V3.4, LS1, LS2, CS2.16.1).  Students share 
with the whole class the components they have found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the 
teacher to them (D2.3, SELS2.1). Then they discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class (D2.4, D3.6, 
D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, V16.3, LS1, CS2.8).
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  To read for the details for finding 
the new target vocabulary the teacher asks the students to read the written version of the introductory 
digital story (or another written text for working on the target vocabulary) in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity 
(D3.2, SELS2.2). One peer reads the first half of the story/text and the second peer reads the other half 
silently in a given time (V3.4, V4.1, V9.2, LS1, CS2.6). The teacher asks them to look out for new words whose 
meanings they do not know during this silent and detailed reading and asks them to look out for new (target) 
words they have previously noted during the listening/watching sessions (D1.2, D1.6, D3.6, D3.8, V3.3, V16.1, 
LS7). They are then asked to share these words with their peers without discussing their meanings in the 
text (D2.4, D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2,V6.2). The teacher starts working on the new (target) words here. In this way, 
they have a detailed reading, understand the story better, and find the new (target) words that they do not 
know to work on.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To separate key (active) and non-key (passive) target vocabulary 
in context: To check whether the students know any of the target key vocabulary about the content, the 
teacher asks them to say the new words whose meaning they do not know and which they have noticed 
and noted during their silent jigsaw reading session and the students do that  (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, D3.2, D3.8, 
V3.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). When they say the words, the teacher writes them on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard by putting them on two lists. She/He writes the key (active) target words on one list and the 
non-key (passive) target words on the other list (that she/he has already decided on earlier when planning 
the lesson). She/He quickly covers the non-key words with examples, pictures, question-answers, however, 
spends more time on the key target words as described below (D3.2, D3.6, V1.2, V3.4, LS2, LS4).
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To find “part/paragraph context clues” in the parts/paragraphs 
of the story (context): The teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again, paying 
attention to which part of the story the unknown words that they do not know are in the utterances (D3.2, 
D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4).  He wants to introduce the meanings of the target key (active) vocabulary 
related to the theme that the students do not know part by part. Then she/he asks them to read the first 

===== PDF_PAGE_983 =====
983
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
part/paragraph in the written version of the story (or similar text) where the unknown words (active key 
target vocabulary) appear (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS5, LS7, CS2.8). Then she/he asks them whether they 
understand the meaning of the part/paragraph (D3.8, SELS3.1). She/He asks them to discuss the meaning of 
the part/paragraph in pairs in general without knowing the meaning of each new target word and asks what 
helps them understand the meaning of the part/paragraph (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, LS1, LS7). Students discuss 
the meaning of the part/paragraph in pairs (D3.10, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.18) and report back to the class. The 
teacher takes notes on the board and writes what the part/paragraph is about in one word/clause/sentence 
in the story (V6.2, LS1, LS5, CS2.16.1).  As each part/ paragraph covers a different but related piece of the 
whole topic, they realise that each part/paragraph contains new target words about a specific part of the 
whole theme. This helps them think about what each new target word in each part/paragraph could be about 
(D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, CS2.16.1). These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), and (8) 
in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To find “sentence clues”/ “the indirect context clues” for the target 
key (active) words in the sentences in context: The teacher helps the students deal with each target key 
word by looking around these words in the sentences for collecting clues which can help them understand 
the meaning of these unknown target words. Starting from the first unknown target (key) word, students 
are asked to look at the words around the target (key) words (D3.2, D3.6, D3.8, D3.9, D3.10, SELS3.1, LS1, 
S2.1,CS2.16.3). These clues could be linking words, adjectives, adverbs, determiners, suffixes, prefixes, 
time expressions that can help them understand the meaning of the unknown target word (but they do not 
talk about the terminology and parts of speeches, instead they talk about the meanings and functions of 
these supportive surrounding words). The teacher asks students to work in pairs to go through and list the 
“indirect clues” for each word (D3.5, D3.7, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, CS2.7, CS2.17). When they finish working in 
pairs, the teacher goes through each word with the whole class and listens to what clues they have found 
to understand the meaning of the unknown target (key) word in the sentences (SELS3.1, V4.1, LS7). This is 
evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION AND SELECTION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To practise with the target words: To practise 
with the target vocabulary that the students work on through “sentence clues/indirect context clues”, the 
teacher checks their understanding again by showing them some realia that she/he has already provided 
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, LS5, CS2.5). The teacher shows them to the students and asks them to think about what 
they are and share them with their peers and then they check the answers with the whole class (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.19). Then the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again and 
shows the corresponding pictures to the students when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
story, without stopping the video while they are watching the story (LS2, LS4). When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the realia/visual elements, etc. about the content and asks in the form of two 
options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that they already know (D3.6, LS5, CS2.7, CS3.1). 
As they have studied the words through the “part/paragraph and sentences clues” in reading the text earlier, 
the students can choose the correct option when they hear the words for the related theme and they answer 
them after talking about them in pairs (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, V6.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1). In this way they can 
further practise the meaning of the target words. These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), 
(6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section1.2 Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Further vocabulary practice through dialogical work: The 
teacher shows the story again, and from the beginning, whenever a target vocabulary item is mentioned 
in the story, the teacher stops the video and asks questions (or lets the students ask and answer each 
other). In this way, they are engaged in various dialogues and use the target words in these dialogues (D2.3, 
D3.8, SELS2.1, V4.1, V6.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.8).  So, they revise and practise the meanings of the target (key) 
vocabulary of the theme “personal life and well-being”. This kind of technique could be applied with different 
and enjoyable activities according to the preference of the teacher. These activities are conducted in the 

===== PDF_PAGE_984 =====
984
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (2) and (6) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Further activities and games are played at this 
stage to reinforce the meaning of the target words by using several materials including AI-based and web 2.0 
materials (D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4). They can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if 
there is a problem with technology. These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8) and 
(9) in the section in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Consolidation of the target vocabulary: To further practise 
the target vocabulary, the teacher can prepare an activity with images/pictures of target vocabulary using 
the web 2.0 tools. She/He mixes these images/pictures for the target vocabulary items and puts them in a 
raffle programme by using a web 2.0 tools or a real box in the classroom. She/He asks the students to take 
turns to go to the white/black board and to draw a picture related to the target components of the current 
theme (D2.3, SELS1.2). Then students say several things about the items in the picture (D1.5, D2.3, V3.4, 
LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.20). The teacher asks the students in their seats to take notes while the student at the 
white/black board talks about the picture she/he has drawn and to give feedback by raising yes/no cards, or 
correcting if there are mistakes, etc., and also repeat the sentences after him/her (D3.9, D3.10, SELS2.2, 
V3.4, CS3.3).When the student at the white/black board finishes, the teacher asks her/him to put the picture 
under the right category that she/he has previously placed on the white/black board earlier. In this way, 
images/pictures that are relevant to the concepts of the target theme will be revised and consolidated once 
again through categorisation (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5). The teacher asks the students to write a definition or an 
example sentence in their personal dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling and definitions (D1.2, D1.6, D3.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V6.2, CS2.20). 
Students’ learning can be checked and evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. When the vocabulary session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the process. Students 
reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the whole class  (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.1, SELS1.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, CS2.15). They also give feedback to each other (D2.1, D2.4, V6.1, 
V9.2, V10.3).
ENG8.3.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  Consciousness raising- 
discovery for the use of target language structures in inductive learning process: The teacher writes 
some sentences on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to read the sentences. Then 
she/he asks them to watch the introductory digital story again to draw their attention to the use of target 
grammatical structures of the theme “personal life and well-being” (D3.2, LS7). The introductory digital 
story is replayed so that the students can notice the use of language with the target grammar structures 
(LS2). While watching the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the language 
with the target grammatical structures is used. When the students finish watching the introductory digital 
story again, the teacher asks the students to read and examine the example sentences carefully (D3.2, D3.6, 
LS7, CS2.2, CS2.6, CS3.2). Then she/he asks the students to work in pairs and find similar sentences with 
the target grammar structure(s) in the theme to those written by her/him on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard (SELS2.2, V3.4, CS2.7).  The students look at the written version of the story and find similar 
sentences to those given by the teacher as examples (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.7).  The teacher then asks 
the students to discuss and list the common features in these sentences and what kind of things are used 
repeatedly and why they think they are used in that way (D3.1, D3.6, D3.10, SELS3.1, V3.3, V4.2, CS2.4, 
CS3.3) .Students examine the teacher’s example sentences, find the similar sentences in the written version 
of the story and discuss them by making a list of similarities and repeated commonalities (D3.6, SELS3.2, 
V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.7). The teacher asks the pairs to say what they have found (D2.3, CS2.10). 
As the pairs say what they have found, the teacher writes them on the board and gives the class time to 
look at them and think about them (D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.3, CS2.10, CS2.16.1, CS3.3) . Then the teacher 

===== PDF_PAGE_985 =====
985
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
hands out a piece of paper and asks the students to make a rule about what they have noticed regarding 
the target structures. Students create a rule about the use of target grammatical structures of the theme 
by working in pairs and they read it to the class and give each other feedback on the rules (D3.1, SELS2.2, 
SELS3.3, V3.3, LS1, CS2.9, CS2.16.1). The teacher shows a sentence that explains the rule correctly and asks 
the students to check if their rules are correct or the teacher gives a table in which the rule for the language 
with the target grammatical structure is incomplete. She/He asks the students to complete it by working 
in pairs (D3.1, SELS2.2, V4.2). Then they check the rule as the whole class and reflect on their experiences 
on how and how much they have learnt  (D2.4, SELS1.1, SELS1.3, V6.1, V10.3, LS1, CS2.15). This process is 
applied again for the other target grammatical structures in the theme if there are any. These activities are 
evaluated as described in items (5), (8) and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS IN CONTEXT:  Students practise the use of the 
language including the target grammatical structures: The teacher asks the students to work on grammar 
tasks she/he assigns (D2.2, D2.3, V3.3, V3.4, CS2.13).  These tasks could be the ones that the teacher 
provides. The teacher shows some other contents in the form of a dialogue, a short paragraph, a short story, 
etc. with sentences including the target grammar structures and asks the students to find the sentences 
with the target grammatical structures in them and asks if they understand them easily  (D3.2, D3.7, D3.10, 
CS2.13, CS2.20, CS3.3).  She/He facilitates some oral or written activities and exercises for the students 
to further practise the target grammatical structures in context in pairs or groups (SELS2.2). She/He also 
facilitates more fun activities and games in which students talk, act out, mime, write, etc. with pen and 
paper, digital, AI-based, etc. materials and contexts so that they can practise and consolidate the target 
grammatical structures by selecting and using them accurately, efficiently, and naturally in context (D2.5, 
D3.2, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, V4.4, LS2, CS2.13). They engage in several dialogic activities in which they share 
information, ideas and thoughts for communicating with their classmates. They exchange information and 
ideas to others by using target grammatical content  (D3.5, SELS2.2, V3.4). When the session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the grammar discovery and 
use process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.3, V6.1, LS6, CS2.15). They also give feedback to each other (D2.1, D2.4, 
V4.2, V10.3, SELS2.2). This is evaluated as described in items (5), (8) and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG8.3.R1
PREPARING FOR READING:  The teacher facilitates reading activities throughout the theme “personal life 
and well-being” from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise techniques and 
the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the theme in various 
forms and amounts as it is explained above (in the vocabulary section) in terms of how it is taught and when 
it needs to be clarified. Various reading styles such as silent reading, jigsaw reading and speed reading are 
used during the pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases. The ultimate aim of reading practice 
is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend 
and talk about the current content and related issues in a meaningful way (V3.2, LS1, CS3.3). Students are 
provided a new text(s) to practise their reading skills through the current theme. They look at the surrounding 
visual materials, the title of the text and other supportive elements to guess the topic of the new reading 
content and they make predictions to be checked after reading the text (D1.1, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS4, CS2.2, 
CS2.11, CS2.16.2).
ENG8.3.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING:  Students read the new reading text carefully 
to check their predictions made in the preparation session at the beginning of the lesson (SELS1.2, V3.4, 
LS1, CS2.8). Then they read the text very quickly (scanning) to check the main components and categories 

===== PDF_PAGE_986 =====
986
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations that are provided by the 
teacher (V3.3, LS4, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.6).  They compare the components they have found in the text with 
those written by the teacher on the smart board/whiteboard related to the sub-themes of “mobile phones 
and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and visual arts” (D3.6, V7.3, V10.1, 
V13.3, LS2, LS5, LS9, CS2.7). Students read the text very quickly to check that  the main components 
correspond to the headings written by the teacher on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on 
the list (already provided by the teacher) at their desks (V3.4, LS7, CS2.8).The teacher could use different 
versions of the scanning activities as described in the “listening/watching- comprehension” section above. 
In this way, they can understand the text in general better with the help of scanning (CS2.16.1). They share 
the components with the whole class (SELS2.1) and then they discuss the accuracy of the results as a whole 
class (D2.3, D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.2, LS1, CS2.8).
ENG8.3.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  Students read the new text silently in pairs in a jigsaw reading 
activity as they have done in the vocabulary session earlier (D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.1). During the reading session, 
they look out for new words whose meanings they do not know (if there are any, other than the target words 
previously covered in the listening/watching-comprehension and vocabulary recognition sessions) (CS2.6). 
They work on the new words in the same way as in the vocabulary sessions. Then they deal with the semantic 
meaning conveyed in the text through display questions, then semi-closed activities and then open-ended 
activities  (V3.3, V6.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.6). They deal with the meaning by using strategies from the closed to 
the open-ended range to understand the theme “personal life and well-being”  in terms of the sub-themes 
of “mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and visual arts” 
mean from different perspectives to build their own understandings (D3.6, D3.8, SELS3.1, CS2.13).  The 
teacher facilitates a number of activities to help the students improve their comprehension, synthesis and 
evaluation skills after applying the knowledge they have gained from the reading process (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, 
CS2.3, CS2.17, CS2.20). After this stage, they work on activities to connect their knowledge and skills they 
have acquired about the current content with CLIL (history, maths, science, etc.) and cultural issues to be 
able to enrich their perspectives on the current theme (D3.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.3, V10.1, V13.3, LS1, LS5, 
LS6, CS2.13, CS2.14).  In this way, they will have the opportunity to develop their knowledge and language 
competence through reading. They can have the opportunity to develop their cognitive, emotional, cultural, 
social, and creative skills through the process of reading (SELS3.3, V7.2, CS2.20).
ENG8.3.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING PROCESS: Students reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation 
to the whole reading-comprehension process (SELS1.3). They talk about them individually and then share 
them with the whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15).  After the reflection and feedback 
session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, 
V4.3, V12.1, LS1).
ENG8.3.W1.
PREPARATION FOR WRITING-EXPRESSION:  Students are facilitated throughout the theme with writing 
activities, from the first lesson to the last when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount of writing. At the beginning of the writing process, students recall their pre-existing 
knowledge about the current content to make a link between what they know and what they are going to 
write about (D3.2, SELS1.1, CS2.12).  This includes examining all the audio/visual sources and elements 
provided for understanding the writing task (V3.2, LS1, CS2.2).

===== PDF_PAGE_987 =====
987
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.3.W2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL:  Students listen (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the writing task they have been given (CS2.2). These are limited and short pieces of writing to see how the 
language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the written language, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “personal life and well-being”. 
Initially, they practise the language in a more controlled way, writing to repeat or simply explain what they 
have heard and seen and/ or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they 
try to understand how the language is used in the target content by examining the model/example writing 
carefully (V3.4, LS2, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the 
knowledge they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in 
relation to current content in their later free writing tasks (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, LS1, LS9).
ENG8.3.W3.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WRITTEN CONTENT:  After working on a sample/model writing task, students 
begin to produce/construct similar tasks of their own (V16.1). They participate in several writing activities 
individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class (D2.3, SELS2.2, V4.1). Their products could range from 
writing a word to a phrase, a clause to a full sentence, a group of sentences to a short paragraph, an essay to 
a short story. These writing activities will help students to produce and display meaningful written language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme as in others (SELS2.1, LS1, CS2.13).
ENG8.3.W4.
PRACTISING BY PRODUCING WRITTEN CONTENT: Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
essays, diaries/journals, blogs, scripts for plays, documentaries, films, etc. to express their ideas, thoughts, 
and feelings in relation to the current topic (D1.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.20) . They take part 
in individual or collaborative projects to improve their writing skills together with social, cultural, cognitive, 
and affective aspects (D1.4, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2).Within this variety, they can find the opportunities to 
show how they can use the language that they have learnt to describe and comment on the current content 
for developing new ideas about them in different genres of writing, according to their potential needs for 
expressing themselves and communication with others (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V7.3, V10.1, V13.3, LS5, CS2.14, 
CS3.3). Storification and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further writing 
practice (D2.5, LS9).
ENG8.3.W5.
PROCESS WRITING: Controlled writing of words, sentences and paragraphs turns to process writing with 
the support of the teacher’s and also peers’ feedback in the theme. This process is expanded and supported 
with additional activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, etc. to practise further by 
writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme in 
fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14). All 
the content is formed as contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests, 
and language level. Students improve their writing after reviewing the feedback they receive and this spiral, 
cyclical, and ongoing work becomes a progressive path for students (D3.1, SELS1.2, V12.3, LS1, CS3.1).

===== PDF_PAGE_988 =====
988
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.3.W6.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students communicate their ideas, thoughts 
and feelings about the sub-themes of “mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; personal 
preferences for films and visual arts” through their writing tasks (V7.3, V10.1, V13.3, CS3.3).  They can use 
AI-based technologies for various activities, by having access to authentic materials. They can also produce 
digital written materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways to interact and communicate 
with peers and/or other people inside and outside school by using the language including target words, 
language chunks, and the social language expressions for the relevant theme in their writing (D3.3, SELS2.3, 
V3.4, V4.2, V11.1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.20).All writing activities can be evaluated as described in items (3), (4), 
(5), (9), (10), (11) and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG8.3.W7.
REFLECTING THROUGH WRITING:  The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas 
and feelings in relation to the whole writing-expression process (SELS1.3) and students talk about them 
individually and share them with the whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15). After the reflection 
and feedback session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas (SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1, LS1).
SPEAKING-EXPRESSION
Practising through speaking from controlled to communicative stages: The teacher facilitates speaking 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the last. Speaking activities support students’ 
learning and help them to produce meaningful language for personal expression and communication with 
others, by using the language including the target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions of the theme (V3.4, V4.5, LS1, LS5).
ENG8.3.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING:  In the beginning, students recall their background knowledge about the 
theme through listening/watching and/or reading and then they talk about it (SELS1.1, CS2.12). Students 
practise the target language items in a controlled way, by saying, repeating, explaining what they hear and 
see in the context, for instance, in the introductory digital story and the listening and reading sections in 
different contexts (SELS3.2). Then they can expand their language use and practice in each section by 
increasing the amount of speaking they do (D1.3, V3.4, LS1, CS2.13).
ENG8.3.S2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL:  Students listen (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the speaking task they have been given (CS2.2). These are limited and short pieces of speaking to see how 
the language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the spoken language, 
after hearing them through listening activities in the theme. Initially, they practise the language in a more 
controlled way, repeating some utterances, simply explaining what they have heard and seen, and/or 
what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to understand how the 
language is used in the target content by examining the speaking model/example carefully (V3.3, V7.3, V10.1, 
V13.3, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge they 
have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to the 
current theme in their later free speaking tasks (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, V3.4, LS5).

===== PDF_PAGE_989 =====
989
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.3.S3.
PRODUCTION OF MEANINGFUL AND ACCURATE CONTENT:  In the later stages of the lessons, the teacher 
prepares new contexts for the students in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading the language 
including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme “personal life and well-being”  
in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS3.2, V7.2, LS9). These newly created contents are 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. 
They participate in such speaking activities individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class (D3.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.20).
ENG8.3.S4.
CONSTRUCTING MEANINGFUL SPOKEN CONTENT:  Students produce various spoken content and their 
products could range from producing a simple utterance including a word to a phrase, a clause to a full 
sentence, a group of sentences to a short speech, a dialogue to a spoken presentation  (SELS3.3, V3.4, 
CS2.20).These speaking activities will help students to produce accurate and meaningful spoken language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme “personal life and well-being” as in others (D3.6, SELS2.1, CS2.13).
ENG8.3.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Collaborative and communicative activities 
are designed and used to revise and consolidate the whole theme “personal life and well-being”  on the sub-
themes of “mobile phones and their impact on health and social life; personal preferences for films and visual 
arts” (V4.5, LS5, LS9, CS2.13, CS2.14).  Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further speaking practice throughout the theme (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.1, V4.2, LS4, 
LS9). Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such 
as dialogues, speeches, short texts, presentations, etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people inside and/or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
chunks, and social language expressions for the current theme (SELS2.3, V3.4, V7.1, V7.2, LS1, CS2.20). AI-
based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They 
can also produce digital materials and projects for speaking at school and at home through recordings (D3.3, 
SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V7.3, V11.1, LS2) . All these speaking activities can be evaluated as described in items 
(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), (9), (10), and (11) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.
ENG8.3.S6.
REFLECTING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students are encouraged to reflect individually or collaboratively in 
groups on their own individual learning (SELS1.3) or on their collaborative learning in pairs, groups or as a 
whole class collaboratively (D2.3, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  The activities will help and support students in these 
feedback and reflection sessions. Their feedback is shared with peers and the teacher and takes the form 
of interactive and ongoing feedback that can help their own improvement (SELS1.2, SELS2.1) and also they 
contribute to the improvement of their peers in their learning processes (V4.1, V4.3, V12.1, V12.3, LS1).

===== PDF_PAGE_990 =====
990
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To talk about the impact of mobile phones on health and social life, as well as on films and visual 
arts in English by using target vocabulary and grammar.
Activity 1: Memory Lane Interview
Students pair up and take on the roles of a journalist and an interviewee. Each student selects a new identity, 
e.g., a famous artist, a tech enthusiast, or a film critic, and answers the questions as this persona. Journalists 
prepare 5 main questions and at least 3 spontaneous follow-up questions based on their peer’s responses. 
Examples include, e.g., “What were you doing when you first started using social media apps?”, “Were you 
watching any specific films or documentaries that inspired you?”, and “What impact has your phone had on 
your daily routine in the past?”. Interviewers take notes while their peers respond. Then roles are switched, 
and the process is repeated. After both interviews are completed, each student writes a short narrative 
about their peer’s past experiences based on the notes. The teacher collects all the papers and asks each 
student to choose one randomly and read it aloud. The rest of the class listens very carefully and tries to 
guess who that might be and why. The teacher provides constructive feedback on students’ performances 
in terms of accurate and adequate use of target vocabulary and grammar and their presentation. Students 
write down one thing they did well and one thing they want to improve for next time. They also give a ‘stars’ 
rating (1-5) for their peer’s performance, followed by a short explanation: “I gave you 4 stars because your 
pronunciation is good, but you should give more details”. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings 
about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To talk about the impact of mobile phones on health and social life, as well as on films and visual 
arts in English by using target vocabulary and grammar.  
Activity 1: Memory Lane Interview
Students pair up and take on the roles of a journalist and an interviewee. Each student selects a new identity, 
e.g., a famous artist, a tech enthusiast, or a film critic, and answers the questions as this persona. The 
teacher provides a bowl of simple questions for students to choose 3 questions from, e.g. “What did you 
do on your phone yesterday?” or “What were you doing at this time on Saturday?”. The teacher also provides 
a language box with sample grammar for students to get help from while answering questions. Then they 
switch roles and follow the same procedure. After that, each pair collaboratively writes a short paragraph 
about their past experiences. The teacher collects all the papers and asks each student to choose one 
randomly and read it aloud. The rest of the class listens very carefully and tries to guess who that might be. 
The teacher provides constructive feedback on students’ performances in terms of accurate and adequate 
use of target vocabulary and grammar and their presentation. Students complete the sentence beginning 
to reflect on one thing they did well and one thing they want to improve for next time. They also give a ‘stars’ 
rating (1-5) for their peer’s performance and a short explanation by completing sentence beginnings, e.g., “I 
gave you ________ because your __________ is good, but you should ___________”. Students reflect on their 
thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_991 =====
991
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 4: FAMILY LIFE & HOME
Sub-themes: Relationships, problems and solutions in 
the family; different houses and living styles
This theme is centred on the concept of “family life and home” and covers 
the sub-themes of “relationships, problems and solutions in the family; 
different houses and living styles”. These components (sub-themes) are 
integrated into the learning process through the contextualised use of target 
vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and social language 
expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, 
collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ 
developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this 
theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed 
to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school 
environment.
CLASS HOURS 14 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.4. Self-Efficacy, D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.1. Empathy, 
D2.2. Responsibility, D2.3. Assertiveness,  D2.4. Trust, D2.5. Playfulness,  D3.1. 
Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.4. Seeking the Truth, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning, 
D3.9. Doubting, D3.10. Critical Perspective
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill 
     Values V1. Justice, V2. Family Integrity, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, 
V6. Honesty, V7. Aesthetics, V8. Privacy, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, 
V11. Independence, V12. Patience, V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. 
Responsibility, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_992 =====
992
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Atatürk’s Principles and History of Revolution, Physical Education 
and Sports, Visual Arts, Music, Counselling and Career Planning, Technology and 
Design
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering 
Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, 
CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. 
Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation 
Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.18. Argumentation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing 
Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.2. Problem 
Solving Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_993 =====
993
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 8 is structured based on inductive approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.8.4.L1.  Students can prepare and get ready for listening (to)/watching about the current content on 
“family life and home with relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses 
and living styles”.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience about the current theme and 
content to recall their background knowledge by investigating it carefully.
b) Students identify significant and necessary relationships and connections between their pre-
existing knowledge, their past experience and the clues to the current content by responding 
to meaningful questions about it (without speaking Turkish or using a translation).
c) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by using their pre-existing 
knowledge and past experience of the content.
d) Students make rational predictions about the current content by looking at the supplementary 
visual elements provided. 
ENG.8.4.L2.  Students can bring together the information in the current content on “family life and home 
with relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles”.
a) Students identify the main topic of the current content in general by listening (to)/watching it 
as a whole in its context. 
b) Students recognise the significant details and basic components of the current content within 
the whole by listening (to) and watching the whole content carefully to notice them.
ENG.8.4.L3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “family life and 
home with relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living 
styles”.
a) Students check their initial predictions about the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between their self-predictions and the clues provided as visuals surrounding 
the content.
b) Students make significant and necessary classifications in the current content that affect the 
meaning of the generally perceived content.
c) Students make significant and necessary comparisons in the generally perceived current 
content to highlight differences between two or more different things by using visuals, ensuring 
clarity and meaning.
d) Students recognise significant branching, linear or spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content.
e) Students make essential inferences and deductions to understand the meaning of the 
generally perceived current content better.
f) Students strongly recognise the holistic meaning formed by the components, comparisons, 
classifications, and details related to the current content.
g) Students construct a detailed understanding of the meaning of the current content through 
prior classifications, comparisons, and inferences/deductions.
h) Students position, internalise and personalise current content in an individualised, age-
appropriate and level-appropriate way.
ENG.8.4.L4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related 
to the listening (to)/watching process about the current content on “family life and home 
with relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles” in 
relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_994 =====
994
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students individually convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings 
that are critically reviewed in relation to the current listening (to)/watching contents and the 
process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current listening (to)/watching content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce new audio/visual products individually by revising their personal work after 
participating in reflective activities related to the listening (to)/watching process of the current 
content.
ENG.8.4.P1.  Students can select and use target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases, clauses, and sentences in utterances authentically, 
naturally, and accurately in the current content about “family life and home with relationships, 
problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles” to develop holistic and 
conscious pronunciation skills after recognising them in context. 
a) Students recognise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases and sentences in utterances within the current content by 
listening (to)/ watching it, first as a whole and then with pauses.
b) Students repeat utterances, including target sentences, clauses, phrases, and words with 
target theme-specific sounds by considering phonological aspects such as pronunciation and 
intonation accurately and naturally in the content several times as a whole class and then in 
groups and individually.
c) Students talk about the current content by taking part in small group conversations by paying 
attention to select and use accurate phonological aspects such as pronunciation, intonation, 
stress, and other features as they are understood.
d) Students reflect personally on their pronunciation and other target phonological aspects such 
as intonation after recording and listening to group conversations about the target content.
e) Students evaluate feedback from others and their personal feedback and reflection by 
listening to or watching the audio/visual content again to check for accuracy.
f) Students utilise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of utterances including target sounds of the current content, appropriately, effectively, 
accurately, naturally, automatically, and consciously when communicating with others in 
different contexts.
ENG.8.4.R1.  Students can prepare for reading the content on “family life and home with relationships, 
problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles” efficiently and 
effectively.
a) Students recall and activate significant pre-existing knowledge and past experiences that can 
be related to the current theme and content through careful exploration. 
b) Students recognise significant relationships between pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to current content.
c) Students make strong preliminary predictions about the current content based on explored 
and recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring and examining the 
audio-visual clues in relation to it.
ENG.8.4.R2.  Students can bring information together about the current content on “family life and home 
with relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles” 
through skimming, scanning and detailed reading.

===== PDF_PAGE_995 =====
995
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students skim the current content by looking very quickly and carefully at the surrounding 
visual materials to identify its general focus.
b)  Students scan the current content by reading it silently and quickly to find key and major 
components.
c) Students read the current content again silently and carefully to examine any significant 
semantic and structural details.
d) Students examine the semantic details in the content carefully to check the accuracy of their 
initial predictions.
ENG.8.4.R3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “family life and 
home with relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living 
styles”.
a) Students classify significant and necessary elements of the current content in a meaningful 
way.
b) Students compare significant and key elements of the current content with each other or with 
similar ones in a meaningful way.
c) Students recognise significant and basic spiral, causal, and logical relationships in the current 
content through careful examination and analysis.
d) Students make meaningful inferences from information in the current content by examining 
it critically.
e) Students internalise their meaningful inferences from information in the current content in an 
individualised way appropriate to their age and language level.
ENG.8.4.R4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related 
to the reading process about the current content on “family life and home with relationships, 
problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles” in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content 
and process with others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
ENG.8.4.V1.  Students can select and use target vocabulary efficiently, effectively, and accurately, based on 
the current content about “family life and home with relationships, problems and solutions in 
the family; different houses and living styles” after recognising them in context and developing 
their conscious and inductive vocabulary learning skills.
a) Students make predictions about the main topic of the current content by identifying “general 
contextual clues” from the visual, audio, and written preparation materials provided during the 
“listening/watching for gist” and/or reading for “skimming” sessions.
b) Students check the accuracy of the predictions related to the “general contextual clue” by 
listening to, watching, and/or reading the audio, visual, and/or written content in context.
c) Students search the target audio/visual, and/or written content by scanning to find key 
components of the theme.
d) Students listen/watch the content carefully and/or read it silently to identify and underline/
circle target unknown words.
e) Students separate target (key-active) words from the other (non-key-passive) words in the 
target content.

===== PDF_PAGE_996 =====
996
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
f) Students examine relevant target words, phrases, and expressions in the current content to 
understand how and where they are used.
g)  Students determine paragraph context clues to identify the topics of the parts/paragraphs 
containing unknown target words.
h)  Students discuss the meaning of the target words by finding indirect sentence context clues 
in the assigned sentences of the parts/paragraphs of the content.
i)  Students determine the correct meanings of the target words in the current content in pairs 
or groups by comparing the meanings/definitions proposed.
j) Students confirm the accuracy of the meanings/definitions of the target words in  the current 
content by consulting with the teacher, the class and/or by using printed or digital dictionaries.
k)  Students make use of the target words of the current theme in a range of semantically 
associated contextual activities and tasks accurately, naturally, authentically, and 
appropriately.
l) Students make use of the target words of the current theme accurately, naturally, appropriately 
and effectively through careful selection when communicating with others.
ENG.8.4.G1.  Students can select and use target grammatical language items efficiently, effectively, and 
accurately, based on the current content about “family life and home with relationships, 
problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles”, after recognising 
them in context and developing their conscious and inductive grammaring skills through 
consciousness-raising and discovery.
a)  Students listen to, watch, and/or read the audio, visual, and written current content presented 
in context that introduces the general use of the target language structures in the current 
theme.
b) Students examine example sentences provided by the teacher or instructional materials 
including target grammatical items to see how the target grammatical structure(s) of the 
target theme is/are used to construct a meaning or contribute to meaning.
c) Students analyse current audio, visual, and/or written content presented in context to identify 
sentences similar to those provided as examples.
d) Students find the commonalities between the sentences identified and those exemplified by 
the teacher or materials through careful comparison in pairs and/or groups.
e) Students discover the characteristics of the commonalities in the sentences in the current 
content by discussing them in pairs or groups as an awareness/consciousness-raising activity.
f) Students formulate rule(s) about the same/target grammar structure(s) of the current theme 
based on their observations and discussions in pairs or groups.
g)  Students engage in contextual activities on the use of target grammatical structures 
(grammaring) of the current theme to explain and justify the grammar rule(s) they have 
discovered.
h)  Students practise to consolidate their understanding of the target grammar that they 
discovered by selecting accurate and meaningful items in meaningful and contextualised 
activities.
i) Students produce accurate and unique verbal or written content by using target grammar 
consciously and in a natural way, without thinking about the rules.
j) Students produce new spoken/written content by using the target grammatical structures 
efficiently, authentically, automatically, and naturally in context when communicating with 
others without thinking about rules.
ENG.8.4.W1.  Students can prepare for writing efficiently and accurately based on the current content 
about “family life and home with relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different 
houses and living styles”.

===== PDF_PAGE_997 =====
997
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students relate pre-existing knowledge and experiences from initial listening, watching, and 
reading processes to current content by examining and activating them.
b) Students understand what the current writing task requires in terms of content and purpose in 
relation to the current content accurately by applying pre-existing knowledge and experiences, 
following guided instructions.
ENG.8.4.W2.  Students can analyse and understand a provided model to guide them in producing similar 
writing tasks related to the content on “family life and home with relationships, problems and 
solutions in the family; different houses and living styles”.
a) Students grasp the significant and basic components of the content in the model/sample 
provided for the assigned writing task, including word selection and use, grammar selection 
and use, and other details such as type, style, and meaning as required.
ENG.8.4.W3.  Students can construct new written content on “family life and home with relationships, 
problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles” based on their 
understanding of the model(s) provided.
a) Students share their ideas and thoughts by brainstorming through collaborative discussion to 
generate ideas for the new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current 
theme.
b) Students plan how the knowledge and ideas generated during the brainstorming session can 
be applied to their new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current theme.
c) Students conduct preliminary research relevant to the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) 
writing task on the current content, considering the type of writing, age appropriateness, and 
language level.
d) Students produce a well-organised and detailed draft relevant to the (prepared and/or 
unprepared) type of writing and appropriate for the age and language level.
e) Students organise and develop contextual materials relevant to the type of the assigned task 
(prepared and/or unprepared) and appropriate to age and language level.
f) Students modify the content they produce for the assigned writing task in a coherent and 
meaningful way, consistent with the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) type of writing, 
and appropriate to the age and language level.
ENG.8.4.W4.  Students can practise producing written content based on the current theme “family life and 
home with relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living 
styles”.
a) Students present relevant supportive materials appropriate to the assigned (prepared and/
or unprepared) writing task, considering the type of writing and appropriate to the age and 
language level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and strategies for the assigned (prepared 
and/or unprepared) writing task, considering its writing type and appropriate to their age and 
language level.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language structures accurately and appropriately 
in their writing tasks, by selecting necessary and appropriate ones in line with the assigned 
type of writing and appropriate to the age and language level.
d) Students express their messages about the current content clearly to the reader in the 
assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task.
ENG.8.4.W5.  Students can engage in the process of writing related to the content on “family life and home 
with relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles”.
a) Students review the feedback from the teacher and/or peers critically on their prepared and/
or unprepared writing task(s).

===== PDF_PAGE_998 =====
998
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students revise to reorganise the written content of their prepared and/or unprepared task 
based on the feedback received from the teacher and/or peers.
c) Students refine and develop their written content produced for their prepared/unprepared 
writing task through the iterative feedback process.
ENG.8.4.W6.  Students can reconstruct their writing about the current theme on “family life and home 
with relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles” to 
communicate effectively about it.
a) Students adapt and use individually internalised information in current or similar content by 
selecting and reorganising it meaningfully in written form as necessary when communicating 
with other people in different contexts.
b) Students exchange information and ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge and content with others.
ENG.8.4.W7.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the writing 
process about the current content on “family life and home with relationships, problems and 
solutions in the family; different houses and living styles” in relation to themselves or others, 
both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings they review 
critically in relation to their current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current writing-expression content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce their new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current writing-expression content and process.
ENG.8.4.S1.  Students can prepare themselves to speak meaningfully, fluently, and efficiently about the 
current content on “family life and home with relationships, problems and solutions in the 
family; different houses and living styles”.
a) Students relate current content by analysing pre-existing knowledge and experiences from 
earlier listening, watching, and reading sessions to associate them with the current content.
ENG.8.4.S2.  Students can analyse and understand the model content related to “family life and home 
with relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles” to 
support the production of spoken language.
a) Students grasp what the provided model/example is about with the help of audio, visual, and/
or written elements after listening, watching, and/or reading the current content.
ENG.8.4.S3.  Students can produce meaningful and accurate spoken content related to the current theme 
on “family life and home with relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different 
houses and living styles”.
a) Students recognise which form and type of spoken content is expected and assigned based on 
the  model/example about the current theme for both prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations through careful examination.
b) Students conduct preliminary research on the expected and assigned content to be produced  
for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students develop a draft outline in accordance with the assigned prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations as presented in the model/example, appropriate to the age and language 
level based on the current theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_999 =====
999
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students organise supplementary audio-visual materials in accordance with the assigned 
task as presented in the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations 
and appropriate to their age and language level. 
e) Students organise information related to the current content to be presented, appropriate to 
the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
f) Students critically review their prepared presentation content for accuracy, coherence, and 
appropriateness to audience and context in prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.8.4.S4.  Students can construct meaningful spoken content about “family life and home with 
relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles” through 
efficient and meaningful practice.
a) Students make spoken content clear and understandable to listeners by selecting and using 
style and form appropriate to age and language level in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
b) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using materials appropriate to the 
context, age, language level, style, and type of discourse, similar to those presented in the 
model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using target vocabulary and language 
structures similar and/or appropriate to those presented in the model/example considering 
their age, language level, context, style, and type of discourse for prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations.
d) Students convey relevant explicit, implicit, and/or complex messages related to the current 
content clearly in context to the listeners by using appropriate material and body language in 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
e) Students convey their messages about the current content clearly to the listeners by 
incorporating all the necessary semantic elements in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
ENG.8.4.S5.  Students can reconstruct the information about “family life and home with relationships, 
problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles” when communicating 
with others.
a) Students use the same or similar information presented in the current content in verbal or 
written forms in different contexts by reorganising it meaningfully, accurately, effectively, 
efficiently, functionally, and individually as required.
b) Students engage in verbal and/or written communication by sharing the reconstructed 
meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.8.4.S6.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the speaking 
process about the current content on “family life and home with relationships, problems and 
solutions in the family; different houses and living styles” in relation to themselves or others, 
both individually and/or with others.
a) Students reveal their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they review critically 
in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
critically review in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process with 
others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_1000 =====
1000
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
FAMILY LIFE & HOME
Sub-themes: relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for relationships, problems and solutions in the family:
Nouns: A behaviour, a relationship, a control, a guest, an invitation, a matter, a promise, a trouble.
Verbs: To control, to matter, to promise, to appear, to argue, to communicate, to deal, to depend, to disagree, 
to invite, to marry, to react, to divorce, to change.
Adjectives: Alone, close, divorced, independent, own, together.
Adverbs: Alone, anymore.
Vocabulary for different houses and living styles:
Nouns: An arrangement, an owner, a pattern.
Verbs: To replace, to live, to stay.
Adjectives: Enormous, future, normal, safe, typical, intelligent, comfortable, double.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Past Progressive Tense: (She was crying alone in her room when the guest appeared unexpectedly).
-Question Tags: (They invited their close relatives to the wedding, didn’t they?)
-Used to: (They used to communicate better when they lived in their enormous house).
-Adverbial Phrases of Time, Place and Frequency: (They argue about typical matters in the family every 
evening in the living room).
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of the Past Progressive Tense: Describing ongoing actions or events in the past interrupted by another 
action.
-Use of question tags: Seeking confirmation or agreement about a past statement or action.
-Use of “used to”: Expressing past habits, routines, or states that no longer happen or exist.
-Use of adverbial phrases of time, place and frequency: Indicating when, where, or how often actions occur 
with proper word order.
Target Social Language in Use:
Sorry,mum. I didn’t mean to spill the water!
Don’t glue yourself to the telly when your favourite show is on! 
It feels so cosy in our home when we light the fireplace!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
a, b, c, d, e

===== PDF_PAGE_1001 =====
1001
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
 Vowels:  a:  (/ae/, /aeı/, /ə/,  /a:/,  /eɪ/,  /a:/,  /a/,   /ɔː/,  /eə/); e: (/e/; /i:/, /ə/)
Consonants: b: (/b/),  silent /b/); c:  (/si/, /k/);  d: (/d/)
*(Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme).
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “family life and home” and its components such as “relationships, problems 
and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles” is present in almost all languages. People 
who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to their new 
language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what “family life and home” 
and its components such as “relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living 
styles” means but will not know how to say them in a foreign language in another language if this has not yet 
been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help 
them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more easily in a foreign language, in this case, 
English.
Key Concepts:
Family,  relationships, problems, relationships in the family, problems in the family, solutions, solutions  to 
family problems, houses, types of houses, styles, living styles.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will design a model house and present it in the classroom. First, 
they will decide the type of their model houses (apartment, house with a garden, a small city flat, a village 
house, an igloo etc.). Then, they will design their model houses. They may use various materials, or they may 
design with the help of Web 2.0 tools. Finally, they will exhibit their houses in the class and give information 
about the daily routines of the people who live in these houses. The assignment will be evaluated by using a 
rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “family life and home” and its components such as 
“relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles”. As they are lower 
secondary school students in year 8 (eight), they can know what “family life and home” and its components 
such as “relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles” mean in their 
own language as it is known that almost all people who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing 
knowledge (in their own language) with them and transfer it to their new language learning context. However, 
they may not know how to say these things in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their 
existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own language can help them recognise, 
understand, and learn them more easily in a foreign language, in this case English.
As they are students in year 8 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “family 
life and home” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or years. These 
grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning of the year, and 
they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the current theme, so 
that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about the “family life and home” and its components such as “relationships, problems and solutions 
in the family; different houses and living styles”. Recalling and practising with relevant vocabulary and 
grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as a basis for moving 
on and learning the current content on the concept of “family life and home”. Therefore, a dialogue game can 

===== PDF_PAGE_1002 =====
1002
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
be played to revise all vocabulary and grammatical items from the previous themes in previous years by 
giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by 
seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to understand and use the previously learnt 
vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise 
or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the 
current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students are asked to recall the concept of “family life and home” by remembering their pre-existing 
background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with 
the current activities in the theme in English without saying anything in Turkish and without translating 
anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English. To remind them 
of their pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, many materials 
such as “a scene from a short film, a passage from a book, a part from a personal diary (journal),  a part of a 
story, a collection of pictures, a part of an animation, a poster, an excerpt from a video etc.” related to this 
content can be shared with the class before the main teaching/learning flow begins. The materials about 
the current concept would give a general idea of the theme. Students are work on the material according to 
the instructions and try to grasp it. The teacher tries to check if they have an idea about the topic of the new 
theme with several activities. When they have finished working on them, the teacher asks them in English 
if they have understood what has been in the material. She/He asks them to write a related words that they 
already know (learnt in previous years) in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/ box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways for checking their comprehension could be tried by the teacher.
They wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the theme, the digital 
introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme “family life and home”  in the classroom, to prepare the students 
emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as 
an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their 
well-being (D1.5, V12.1, V13.4).This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/
singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote, 
a very short story, watching a pantomime/online story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current 
theme and does not require any knowledge of the current theme in English (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.4, V7.2, 
V13.2, LS4).That is only for relaxation and preparation for the lesson.
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills are used in an integrated way around a central topic “family life and home” and the sub-
themes of “relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles”, allowing 
students to build background knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks 
throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support 
the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the 
teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on 
the previous one to promote language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme 
“family life and home” is characterised by a balanced integration of all the skills, where students engage 
with input (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) and respond through output 
(speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their grammar, vocabulary and phonological 
selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_1003 =====
1003
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.4.L1.
PREPARATION FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students prepare to access the introduction to the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to remember what they have done during the “establishing links” 
session for recalling background knowledge about the related concept where they watched a short film 
scene prepared for that section (which is not a part of the introductory digital story of the theme) (D3.2, 
V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4).  They remember what they already know about the content to prepare themselves to 
work on guessing the topic of the current theme (V2.3, V2.4, V8.3, LS1, LS5) .They prepare to access the 
main materials of the theme for having connections by making predictions based on the short film in the 
“establishing links” session (D3.8, V3.3, LS1, LS4).
ENG8.4. L2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER BY LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students collect “general context clues” to 
understand the whole content by looking at visual clues before listening (to)/watching. The teacher asks the 
students to look at any visual material such as pictures, posters, and realia related to the current content to 
identify the topic of the content and to answer the question “What is the whole content about?” (D3.6, V2.3, 
V2.4, V8.3, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.2) .They can realise that there might be different elements related to this 
concept (D2.1, V4.5).The teacher asks them to look at the visuals quickly to make predictions about the topic 
of the whole theme by using the “listening (to)/watching for gist” strategy before listening/watching the main 
visual material of the theme, which is the introductory digital story (D3.8, V4.5, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.11). The 
teacher asks the students to read the title of the theme and asks them to brainstorm by thinking about which 
words they already know and which words come to mind in connection with the title (D3.4, LS2, CS2.12, 
CS2.16.2).She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new/target words they do not know at this 
stage of the lesson. She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity to guess the general topic/
theme of the context by using the words they already know and that there will be time to work on the new 
words of the current content later (D1.4, V12.2).At this stage, some guessing games can be played to guess 
the main topic of the current content/theme by using the clues from the additional visuals such as pictures, 
posters, etc. related to the content, prepared and produced by the teacher, by using web 2.0 tools  (D2.5, 
D3.3, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG8.4.L3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  Students identify and recognise the topic of the 
current theme by listening (to)/watching the introductory digital story that provides a context for the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen (to)/watch the introductory digital story to recognise the 
topic of the theme in general (This is a kind of preparation to work on the target key vocabulary in the later 
stages of the lesson(s) (D3.2, V3.4).The teacher asks the students to recall the work done with visuals (the 
scene from a short film) in the “establishing links” session about the current context shown earlier during the 
listening (to)/ watching session (D3.2, LS2).Students watch the digital introductory story and consolidate 
the identification of the target theme as a whole (CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that the 
students can hear/ see the context as a whole and understand the theme holistically (D3.1,V2.3, V2.4, V8.3, 
LS2, LS4, LS5).
MAKING MEANING THROUGH THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE THEME BY LISTENING/W ATCHINfG:  
Students find and identify the main components of the current content by listening (to)/watching the context 
quickly through scanning. The teacher organises a scanning activity to find out the components as the basic 
and most important details of the current content through the introductory digital story to help students 
learn and know more about the current theme. She/He asks the students to listen and watch the story again 
without stopping, by scanning/looking for any relevant words or concepts that are heard in the story (D3.6, 
V3.4, LS2, LS4, LS7). The teacher hands out a sheet to the students on which there is a list of words/phrases, 

===== PDF_PAGE_1004 =====
1004
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
etc. to tick, circle or underline. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard through watching the 
story very quickly without stopping. The teacher could apply different versions of scanning activities such 
as finding important elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not 
take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, LS1, CS2.4). In this way, they will be able 
to understand the story in general through the main elements and components by eliminating the irrelevant 
ones. Students share with the whole class the words and components they have found and ticked/circled/
underlined on the list given by the teacher to them (D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.4). Then they discuss the accuracy of 
the findings as a whole class (SELS2.2, CS2.8). This is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After having watched the introductory 
digital story, the teacher places five headings on the smart board/whiteboard/blackboard which are on the 
target vocabulary list of the related theme as clues to the components of the current theme (D3.7, V2.3, 
V2.4, V8.3, LS5) . She/He places a corresponding picture next to each component and writes the name of 
each heading. She/He guides students to understand the heading of each category with the help of pictures. 
The teacher asks the students to work with the words they already know during this phase of the lesson 
(SELS1.2). Students work on these categories with the help of the scenes from the introductory digital 
story (D3.6, LS2, LS4). The teacher reads the headings aloud a few times by pointing to the corresponding 
pictures on the board and the students repeat them. Then the students say the headings all together. For 
working on the sub-themes of “relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and 
living styles” further, the teacher asks volunteers to go to the board and choose the picture (already provided 
by the teacher) to stick/pin/ drag it on the white/black board or the smart board (if the teacher asks) (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.2, V3.4, V20.4, LS2, LS4). Then, they say the headings (components) together as a whole 
class. In this way, the main components of the theme “family life and home” are introduced to the students 
in English (LS5). At this stage, the meanings of the target words are not studied, but the categorisation of 
the basic components contributes to their recognition of the concept in general. The teacher could ask the 
students to decide which words in the introductory digital story they do not know and to note them while 
reading the text later in the reading session (D1.2, D1.6, D3.8, SELS1.1, V3.4) . This could be evaluated as 
described in items (1), (2), (3), (6) (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum. All this work helps them understand the main categories through classifications and 
also the inferences they make while listening to and watching the introductory digital story and/or examining 
the picture related to the content. In this way, they recognise and comprehend the main concept as a whole 
through categorisation, comparison, and inference (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5, V3.3, LS2, LS4, LS7).
 
ENG8.4.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS: Students check the accuracy of their prior guesses, 
reflect on their ideas and feelings about the listening/watching session, and give feedback to each other. 
After the students listen (to)/watch the introductory digital story to find the main components of the theme, 
the teacher asks them whether their guesses they made during the “establishing links” session, looking at 
visuals session, and their first listening (to)/watching session have been correct (D3.8, V4.2, V4.3, LS2, LS4). 
As they have already seen a scene from a short film created about the concept of the current theme, during 
the “establishing links” session earlier, and looked at some supplementary visuals (pictures, the title of the 
theme) and also they saw the picture related to the introductory digital story they can easily answer what the 
current theme is about and that their guesses were correct (D3.4, V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8).The teacher 
asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole listening (to)/
watching process and students talk about them individually (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole class 
(D2.3, SELS.2.1, V4.2). After the reflection and feedback session, they talk again about the components of 
the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their ideas (SELS2.2, V4.2, V10.3).

===== PDF_PAGE_1005 =====
1005
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.4.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Students recognise the pronunciation and other phonological 
aspects of target utterances, including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen (to)/watch an extract from the introductory digital story as 
the main context for noticing the target phonological elements (LS1, LS2, LS4).  She/He asks them to pay 
attention to the target pronunciation and/or other phonological aspects in the current content. The teacher 
asks them to notice how the target phonological aspects are used in context. Starting with the extract from 
the digital story, students go on with other contextual examples and activities to hear and understand the 
use of target elements in context (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION (AND OTHER PHONOLOGICAL ASPECTS):  Students 
select and use accurate, natural, and authentic target pronunciation and other phonological aspects of the 
target utterances including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme “family life 
and home”. After recognition activities, students repeat the target utterances including sentences, clauses, 
phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme aloud a few times as a whole class with accurate and 
natural pronunciation and other phonological aspects after listening (to)/watching the recordings that the 
teacher has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes or some other AI-based technologies 
(D3.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2).To help the students pronounce the target utterances including sentences, clauses, 
phrases, words, and sounds accurately, the teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as 
showing the target utterance to the students and they say it or letting them listen to the recording, then 
turning off the recording randomly and students say the utterances they hear from the recording (D3.2, 
D3.7, D2.3). Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one 
out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound exercises by getting help from 
AI technologies (D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2, LS4).  Along with the target utterances, the target 
sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are also practised in the same ways. This 
is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) as described in the section1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7).
FURTHER PRACTICE OF THE TARGET PRONUNCIATION:  Students practise pronunciation with further 
activities for practice, consolidation, feedback and reflection. The teacher could use tape recording and 
feedback techniques. Students read aloud and record a text with the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme   provided by the teacher, at home (D1.2, D1.6, 
D2.3, SELS3.1, V4.1, V5.1, LS2, LS5).  They bring their recording(s) to school. First, they listen to the correct 
pronunciation of the text, provided by the teacher, in class. Then they listen to the recordings of individual 
students. During or after listening to the texts recorded by the students at home, the students give self-
feedback or peer feedback on the pronunciation of the words in the recordings (D2.4, D3.6, SELS1.3, 
SELS2.2, V4.1, V12.1, V14.1, LS1, LS5).  If available, a different version of the recording technique could be 
applied in the class. The teacher asks the students to discuss, say/talk about something, which they already 
know, related to the theme. Groups take turns to talk and the rest of the class listens (D2.3, D2.4, SELS2.2). 
During this session, the teacher records their discussions. After each group’s performance, the class listens 
to the recording for pronunciation and everyone gives feedback on it, including the individual students who 
have spoken during the discussion (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS1).  The teacher can get 
help from AI-based technologies for these activities if available. Students’ performances are evaluated as 
explained in items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
pronunciation process and students talk about them individually (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole 
class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS2, CS2.15). After the reflection and feedback 
session, they talk again about the components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their 
ideas (SELS1.2, V3.3, V6.2, V10.3, LS1, LS2).

===== PDF_PAGE_1006 =====
1006
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.4.V1
PREPARATION FOR THE WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To scan for finding the main components of 
the theme “family life and home”, the teacher asks the students to listen to and watch the introductory digital 
story to remember the topic of content mentioned in the previous listening/watching sessions. The teacher 
also asks them to check their predictions made in the first listening/watching session at the beginning of 
the lessons on the current theme once more again (D3.8, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS7). Then the 
teacher asks the students to read the relevant parts of the written version of the introductory digital story 
provided by the teacher by scanning (reading very quickly) to check the main components and categories 
with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations with the headings that 
the teacher has previously written on the smart board/white board/blackboard in relation to the main 
components of the theme “family life and home” (D3.7, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.8).
Students read the written extract from the story very quickly to check the main components corresponding 
to the headings that the teacher has written on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on the list 
(already provided by the teacher) at their seats (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4).The teacher could apply different versions 
of scanning activities such as finding important components, categories, and elements on a list and circle 
them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes 
(LS1, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.8).In this way, they can understand the story in general better with the help of reading 
this time after the listening/watching sessions held earlier through the main elements and components by 
eliminating the irrelevant ones (D3.2,D3.6, D3.7, V3.4, LS1, LS2, CS2.16.1). Students share with the whole 
class the components they have found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the teacher to them 
(D2.3, SELS2.1). Then they discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class (D2.4, D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, 
V3.4, V4.2, V16.3, LS1, CS2.8).
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  To read for the details for finding 
the new target vocabulary the teacher asks the students to read the written version of the introductory 
digital story (or another written text for working on the target vocabulary) in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity 
(D3.2, SELS2.2). One peer reads the first half of the story/text and the second peer reads the other half 
silently in a given time (V3.4, V4.1, V9.2, LS1, CS2.6).The teacher asks them to look out for new words whose 
meanings they do not know during this silent and detailed reading and asks them to look out for new (target) 
words they have previously noted during the listening/watching sessions (D1.2, D1.6, D3.6, D3.8, V3.3, V16.1, 
LS7).They are then asked to share these words with their peers without discussing their meanings in the 
text (D2.4, D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2,V6.2).  The teacher starts working on the new (target) words here. In this 
way, they have a detailed reading, understand the story better, and find the new (target) words that they do 
not know to work on.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To separate key (active) and non-key (passive) target vocabulary 
in context: To check whether the students know any of the target key vocabulary about the content, the 
teacher asks them to say the new words whose meaning they do not know and which they have noticed 
and noted during their silent jigsaw reading session and the students do that (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, D3.2, D3.8, 
V3.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). When they say the words, the teacher writes them on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard by putting them on two lists. She/He writes the key (active) target words on one list and the 
non-key (passive) target words on the other list (that she/he has already decided on earlier when planning 
the lesson). She/He quickly covers the non-key words with examples, pictures, question-answers, however, 
spends more time on the key target words as described below (D3.2, D3.6, V1.2, V3.4, LS2, LS4).
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY:  To find “part/paragraph context clues” in the parts/paragraphs 
of the story (context): The teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again, paying 
attention to which part of the story the unknown words that they do not know are in the utterances (D3.2, 
D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4).  He wants to introduce the meanings of the target key (active) vocabulary 
related to the theme that the students do not know part by part. Then she/he asks them to read the first 

===== PDF_PAGE_1007 =====
1007
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
part/paragraph in the written version of the story (or similar text) where the unknown words (active key 
target vocabulary) appear (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS5, LS7, CS2.8). Then she/he asks them whether they 
understand the meaning of the part/paragraph (D3.8, SELS3.1). She/He asks them to discuss the meaning of 
the part/paragraph in pairs in general without knowing the meaning of each new target word and asks what 
helps them understand the meaning of the part/paragraph (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, LS1, LS7). Students discuss 
the meaning of the part/paragraph in pairs (D3.10, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.18) and report back to the class. The 
teacher takes notes on the board and writes what the part/paragraph is about in one word/clause/sentence 
in the story (V6.2, LS1, LS5, CS2.16.1).  As each part/ paragraph covers a different but related piece of the 
whole topic, they realise that each part/paragraph contains new target words about a specific part of the 
whole theme. This helps them think about what each new target word in each part/paragraph could be about 
(D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, CS2.16.1). These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), and (8) 
in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To find “sentence clues”/ “the indirect context clues” for the target 
key (active) words in the sentences in context: The teacher helps the students deal with each target key 
word by looking around these words in the sentences for collecting clues which can help them understand 
the meaning of these unknown target words. Starting from the first unknown target (key) word, students 
are asked to look at the words around the target (key) words (D3.2, D3.6, D3.8, D3.9, D3.10, SELS3.1, LS1,C 
S2.1,CS2.16.3).These clues could be linking words, adjectives, adverbs, determiners, suffixes, prefixes, 
time expressions that can help them understand the meaning of the unknown target word (but they do not 
talk about the terminology and parts of speeches, instead they talk about the meanings and functions of 
these supportive surrounding words). The teacher asks students to work in pairs to go through and list the 
“indirect clues” for each word (D3.5, D3.7, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, CS2.7, CS2.17).  When they finish working in 
pairs, the teacher goes through each word with the whole class and listens to what clues they have found 
to understand the meaning of the unknown target (key) word in the sentences (SELS3.1, V4.1, LS7). This is 
evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION AND SELECTION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To practise with the target words: To practise 
with the target vocabulary that the students work on through “sentence clues/indirect context clues”, the 
teacher checks their understanding again by showing them some realia that she/he has already provided 
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, LS5,CS2.5) .The teacher shows them to the students and asks them to think about what 
they are and share them with their peers and then they check the answers with the whole class (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.19).Then the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again and 
shows the corresponding pictures to the students when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
story, without stopping the video while they are watching the story (LS2, LS4). When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the realia/visual elements, etc. about the content and asks in the form of two 
options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that they already know (D3.6, LS5, CS2.7, CS3.1).
As they have studied the words through the “part/paragraph and sentences clues” in reading the text earlier, 
the students can choose the correct option when they hear the words for the related theme and they answer 
them after talking about them in pairs (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, V6.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1).In this way they can 
further practise the meaning of the target words. These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), 
(6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section1.2 Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Further vocabulary practice through dialogical work: The 
teacher shows the story again, and from the beginning, whenever a target vocabulary item is mentioned 
in the story, the teacher stops the video and asks questions (or lets the students ask and answer each 
other). In this way, they are engaged in various dialogues and use the target words in these dialogues (D2.3, 
D3.8, SELS2.1, V4.1, V6.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.8).  So, they revise and practise the meanings of the target (key) 
vocabulary of the theme “family life and home”. This kind of technique could be applied with different and 
enjoyable activities according to the preference of the teacher. These activities are conducted in the form of 

===== PDF_PAGE_1008 =====
1008
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (2) and (6) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Further activities and games are played at this stage to 
reinforce the meaning of the target words by using several materials including AI-based and web 2.0 (D2.5, 
SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4). They can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem 
with technology. These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section 
in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Consolidation of the target vocabulary: To further practise 
the target vocabulary, the teacher can prepare an activity with images/pictures of target vocabulary using 
the web 2.0 tools. She/He mixes these images/pictures for the target vocabulary items and puts them in a 
raffle programme by using a web 2.0 tools or a real box in the classroom. She/He asks the students to take 
turns to go to the white/black board and to draw a picture related to the target components of the current 
theme (D2.3, SELS1.2). Then students say several things about the items in the picture (D1.5, D2.3, V3.4, 
LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.20). The teacher asks the students in their seats to take notes while the student at the 
white/black board talks about the picture she/he has drawn and to give feedback by raising yes/no cards, or 
correcting if there are mistakes, etc., and also repeat the sentences after him/her (D3.9, D3.10, SELS2.2, 
V3.4,CS3.3).When the student at the white/black board finishes, the teacher asks her/him to put the picture 
under the right category that she/he has previously placed on the white/black board earlier. In this way, 
images/pictures that are relevant to the concepts of the target theme will be revised and consolidated once 
again through categorisation (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5). The teacher asks the students to write a definition or an 
example sentence in their personal dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling and definitions (D1.2, D1.6, D3.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V6.2, CS2.20).  
Students’ learning can be checked and evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. When the vocabulary session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the process. Students 
reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the whole class (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.1, SELS1.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  They also give feedback to each other (D2.1, D2.4, V6.1, 
V9.2, V10.3).
ENG8.4.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE): 
Consciousness raising- discovery for the use of target language structures in inductive learning process: 
The teacher writes some sentences on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to read the 
sentences. Then she/he asks them to watch the introductory digital story again to draw their attention to the 
use of target grammatical structures of the theme “family life and home” (D3.2, LS7). The introductory digital 
story is replayed so that the students can notice the use of language with the target grammar structures 
(LS2). While watching the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the language 
with the target grammatical structures is used. When the students finish watching the introductory digital 
story again, the teacher asks the students to read and examine the example sentences carefully (D3.2, D3.6, 
LS7, CS2.2, CS2.6, CS3.2). Then she/he asks the students to work in pairs and find similar sentences with 
the target grammar structure(s) in the theme to those written by her/him on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard (SELS2.2, V 3 .4, CS2.7) . The students look at the written version of the story and find similar 
sentences to those given by the teacher as examples (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.7).  The teacher then asks 
the students to discuss and list the common features in these sentences and what kind of things are used 
repeatedly and why they think they are used in that way (D3.1, D3.6, D3.10, SELS3.1, V3.3, V4.2, CS2.4, 
CS3.3).Students examine the teacher’s example sentences, find the similar sentences in the written version 
of the story and discuss them by making a list of similarities and repeated commonalities (D3.6, SELS3.2, 
V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.7).The teacher asks the pairs to say what they have found (D2.3, CS2.10). 
As the pairs say what they have found, the teacher writes them on the board and gives the class time to 
look at them and think about them (D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.3, CS2.10, CS2.16.1, CS3.3).  Then the teacher 

===== PDF_PAGE_1009 =====
1009
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
hands out a piece of paper and asks the students to make a rule about what they have noticed regarding 
the target structures. Students create a rule about the use of target grammatical structures of the theme 
by working in pairs and they read it to the class and give each other feedback on the rules (D3.1, SELS2.2, 
SELS3.3, V3.3, LS1, CS2.9, CS2.16.1). The teacher shows a sentence that explains the rule correctly and asks 
the students to check if their rules are correct or the teacher gives a table in which the rule for the language 
with the target grammatical structure is incomplete. She/He asks the students to complete it by working 
in pairs (D3.1, SELS2.2, V4.2). Then they check the rule as the whole class and reflect on their experiences 
on how and how much they have learnt (D2.4, SELS1.1, SELS1.3, V6.1, V10.3, LS1, CS2.15).  This process is 
applied again for the other target grammatical structures in the theme if there are any. These activities are 
evaluated as described in items (5), (8) and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS IN CONTEXT:  Students practise the use of the 
language including the target grammatical structures: The teacher asks the students to work on grammar 
tasks she/he assigns (D2.2, D2.3, V3.3, V3.4, CS2.13).  These tasks could be the ones that the teacher 
provides. The teacher shows some other contents in the form of a dialogue, a short paragraph, a short story, 
etc. with sentences including the target grammar structures and asks the students to find the sentences 
with the target grammatical structures in them and asks if they understand them easily (D3.2, D3.7, D3.10, 
CS2.13, CS2.20, CS3.3). She/He facilitates some oral or written activities and exercises for the students to 
further practise the target grammatical structures in context in pairs or groups (SELS2.2). She/He also 
facilitates more fun activities and games in which students talk, act out, mime, write, etc. with pen and 
paper, digital, AI-based, etc. materials and contexts so that they can practise and consolidate the target 
grammatical structures by selecting and using them accurately, efficiently, and naturally in context ( D2.5, 
D3.2, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, V4.4, LS2, CS2.13) .They engage in several dialogic activities in which they share 
information, ideas and thoughts for communicating with their classmates. They exchange information and 
ideas to others by using target grammatical content (D3.5, SELS2.2, V3.4).  When the session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the grammar discovery and 
use process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.3, V6.1, LS6, CS2.15). They also give feedback to each other (D2.1, D2.4, 
V4.2, V10.3, SELS2.2). This is evaluated as described in items (5), (8) and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG8.4.R1
PREPARING FOR READING:  The teacher facilitates reading activities throughout the theme “family life 
and home” from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the theme in various forms 
and amounts as it is explained above (in the vocabulary section) in terms of how it is taught and when it 
needs to be clarified. Various reading styles such as silent reading, jigsaw reading and speed reading are 
used during the pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases. The ultimate aim of reading practice 
is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend 
and talk about the current content and related issues in a meaningful way (V3.2, LS1, CS3.3). Students are 
provided a new text(s) to practise their reading skills through the current theme. They look at the surrounding 
visual materials, the title of the text and other supportive elements to guess the topic of the new reading 
content and they make predictions to be checked after reading the text (D1.1, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS4, CS2.2, 
CS2.11, CS2.16.2).

===== PDF_PAGE_1010 =====
1010
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.4.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING:  Students read the new reading text carefully 
to check their predictions made in the preparation session at the beginning of the lesson (SELS1.2, V3.4, 
LS1, CS2.8). Then they read the text very quickly (scanning) to check the main components and categories 
with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations that are provided by the 
teacher (V3.3, LS4, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.6). They compare the components they have found in the text with 
those written by the teacher on the smart board/whiteboard related to the sub-themes of “relationships, 
problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles (D3.6, V2.3, V2.4, V8.3, LS2, LS5, 
CS2.7).Students read the text very quickly to check that the main components correspond to the headings 
written by the teacher on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on the list (already provided 
by the teacher) at their desks (V3.4, LS7, CS2.8). The teacher could use different versions of the scanning 
activities as described in the “listening/watching- comprehension” section above. In this way, they can 
understand the text in general better with the help of scanning (CS2.16.1). They share the components with 
the whole class (SELS2.1) and then they discuss the accuracy of the results as a whole class (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.2, V4.2, LS1, CS2.8).
ENG8.4.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  Students read the new text silently in pairs in a jigsaw reading 
activity as they have done in the vocabulary session earlier (D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.1). During the reading session, 
they look out for new words whose meanings they do not know (if there are any, other than the target words 
previously covered in the listening/watching-comprehension and vocabulary recognition sessions) (CS2.6). 
They work on the new words in the same way as in the vocabulary sessions. Then they deal with the semantic 
meaning conveyed in the text through display questions, then semi-closed activities and then open-ended 
activities  (V3.3, V6.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.6). They deal with the meaning by using strategies from the closed 
to the open-ended range to understand the theme “family life and home” in terms of the sub-themes of 
“relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles” mean from different 
perspectives to build their own understandings (D3.6, D3.8, SELS3.1, CS2.13). The teacher facilitates 
a number of activities to help the students improve their comprehension, synthesis and evaluation skills 
after applying the knowledge they have gained from the reading process (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, CS2.3, CS2.17, 
CS2.20). After this stage, they work on activities to connect their knowledge and skills they have acquired 
about the current content with CLIL (history, maths, science, etc.) and cultural issues to be able to enrich 
their perspectives on the current theme  (D3.5, SELS3.2, V2.3, V2.4, V8.3,LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.13, CS2.14) . 
In this way, they will have the opportunity to develop their knowledge and language competence through 
reading. They can have the opportunity to develop their cognitive, emotional, cultural, social, and creative 
skills through the process of reading (SELS3.3, V7.2, CS2.20).
ENG8.4.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING PROCESS: Students reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation 
to the whole reading-comprehension process (SELS1.3). They talk about them individually and then share 
them with the whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15).  After the reflection and feedback 
session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, 
V4.3, V12.1, LS1).
ENG8.4.W1.
PREPARATION FOR WRITING-EXPRESSION:  Students are facilitated throughout the theme with writing 
activities, from the first lesson to the last when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount of writing. At the beginning of the writing process, students recall their pre-existing 

===== PDF_PAGE_1011 =====
1011
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
knowledge about the current content to make a link between what they know and what they are going to 
write about (D3.2, SELS1.1, CS2.12).  This includes examining all the audio/visual sources and elements 
provided for understanding the writing task (V3.2,LS1, CS2.2).
ENG8.4.W2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL : Students listen (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the writing task they have been given (CS2.2). These are limited and short pieces of writing to see how the 
language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the written language, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “family life and home”. Initially, 
they practise the language in a more controlled way, writing to repeat or simply explain what they have heard 
and seen and/ or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to 
understand how the language is used in the target content by examining the model/example writing carefully 
(V3.4, LS2, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge 
they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to 
current content in their later free writing tasks (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, LS1).
ENG8.4.W3.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WRITTEN CONTENT: After working on a sample/model writing task, students begin 
to produce/construct similar tasks of their own. They participate in several writing activities individually, in 
pairs, in groups and as a whole class (D2.3, SELS2.2,V4.1). Their products could range from writing a word 
to a phrase, a clause to a full sentence, a group of sentences to a short paragraph, an essay to a short story. 
These writing activities will help students to produce and display meaningful written language for personal 
expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language expressions in 
this theme as in others (SELS2.1, LS1, CS2.13).
ENG8.4.W4.
PRACTISING BY PRODUCING WRITTEN CONTENT: Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
essays, diaries/journals, blogs, scripts for plays, documentaries, films, etc. to express their ideas, thoughts, 
and feelings in relation to the current topic (D1.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.20).  They take part 
in individual or collaborative projects to improve their writing skills together with social, cultural, cognitive, 
and affective aspects (D1.4, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2). Within this variety, they can find the opportunities 
to show how they can use the language that they have learnt to describe and comment on the current 
content for developing new ideas about them in different genres of writing, according to their potential 
needs for expressing themselves and communication with others (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V2.3, V2.4, V8.3, LS5, 
CS2.14,CS3.3).Storification and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further writing 
practice (D2.5,LS9).
ENG8.4.W5.
PROCESS WRITING: Controlled writing of words, sentences and paragraphs turns to process writing with 
the support of the teacher’s and also peers’ feedback in the theme. This process is expanded and supported 
with additional activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, etc. to practise further by 
writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme in 
fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9,CS2.13, CS2.14). All 
the content is formed as contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests, 
and language level. Students improve their writing after reviewing the feedback they receive and this spiral, 
cyclical, and ongoing work becomes a progressive path for students (D3.1, SELS1.2, V12.3, LS1, CS3.1).

===== PDF_PAGE_1012 =====
1012
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.4.W6.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students communicate their ideas, thoughts 
and feelings about the the sub-themes of “relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different 
houses and living styles” through their writing tasks (V2.3, V2.4, V8.3, CS3.3) .They can use AI-based 
technologies for various activities, by having access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital 
written materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways to interact and communicate with 
peers and/or other people inside and outside school by using the language including target words, language 
chunks, and the social language expressions for the relevant theme in their writing (D3.3, SELS2.3, V3.4, 
V4.2, V11.1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.20).All writing activities can be evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (5), (9), 
(10), (11) and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG8.4.W7.
REFLECTING THROUGH WRITING:  The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas 
and feelings in relation to the whole writing-expression process (SELS1.3) and students talk about them 
individually and share them with the whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3,SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15). After the reflection 
and feedback session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas (SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1,LS1).
SPEAKING-EXPRESSION
Practising through speaking from controlled to communicative stages: The teacher facilitates speaking 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the last. Speaking activities support students’ 
learning and help them to produce meaningful language for personal expression and communication with 
others, by using the language including the target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions of the theme (V3.4, V4.5, LS1, LS5).
ENG8.4.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING : In the beginning, students recall their background knowledge about the 
theme through listening/watching and/or reading and then they talk about it (SELS1.1, CS2.12).  Students 
practise the target language items in a controlled way, by saying, repeating, explaining what they hear and 
see in the context, for instance, in the introductory digital story and the listening and reading sections in 
different contexts (SELS3.2). Then they can expand their language use and practice in each section by 
increasing the amount of speaking they do (D1.3, V3.4, LS1, CS2.13).
ENG8.4.S2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL:  Students listen (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the speaking task they have been given (CS2.2). These are limited and short pieces of speaking to see how 
the language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the spoken language, 
after hearing them through listening activities in the theme. Initially, they practise the language in a more 
controlled way, repeating some utterances, simply explaining what they have heard and seen, and/or 
what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to understand how 
the language is used in the target content by examining the speaking model/example carefully (V2.3, V2.4, 
V8.3, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2) .They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge they 
have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to the 
current theme in their later free speaking tasks (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, V3.4, LS5).

===== PDF_PAGE_1013 =====
1013
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.4.S3.
PRODUCTION OF MEANINGFUL AND ACCURATE CONTENT:  In the later stages of the lessons, the teacher 
prepares new contexts for the students in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading the language 
including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme “family life and home”  in fun, 
enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS3.2, V7.2, LS9).These newly created contents are contextual, 
practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. They participate 
in such speaking activities individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class (D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.20).
ENG8.4.S4.
CONSTRUCTING MEANINGFUL SPOKEN CONTENT:  Students produce various spoken content and their 
products could range from producing a simple utterance including a word to a phrase, a clause to a full 
sentence, a group of sentences to a short speech, a dialogue to a spoken presentation (SELS3.3, V3.4, 
CS2.20).These speaking activities will help students to produce accurate and meaningful spoken language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme “family life and home” as in others (D3.6, SELS2.1, CS2.13).
ENG8.4.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Collaborative and communicative activities 
are designed and used to revise and consolidate the whole theme “family life and home” on the sub-themes 
of “relationships, problems and solutions in the family; different houses and living styles”  (V4.5, LS5, CS2.13, 
CS2.14).Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further 
speaking practice throughout the theme (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.1, V4.2, LS4, LS9).Students are encouraged 
to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, short 
texts, presentations, etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people inside and/or 
outside the school by using the language including the target words, language chunks, and social language 
expressions for the current theme (SELS2.3, V3.4, V7.1, V7.2, LS1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be 
used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital 
materials and projects for speaking at school and at home through recordings (D3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, 
V7.3, V11.1, LS2). All these speaking activities can be evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), 
(9), (10), and (11) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG8.4.S6.
REFLECTING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students are encouraged to reflect individually or collaboratively in 
groups on their own individual learning (SELS1.3) or on their collaborative learning in pairs, groups or as a 
whole class collaboratively (D2.3, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  The activities will help and support students in these 
feedback and reflection sessions. Their feedback is shared with peers and the teacher and takes the form 
of interactive and ongoing feedback that can help their own improvement (SELS1.2, SELS2.1) and also they 
contribute to the improvement of their peers in their learning processes (V4.1, V4.3,V12.1, V12.3, LS1).

===== PDF_PAGE_1014 =====
1014
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To talk about relationships, problems, and solutions in the family, different families, and family 
houses in English by using target vocabulary and grammar.
Activity 1: Family Feud
The teacher prepares a list of guesses about imaginary family problems in different families and as many 
identity cards of famous people as possible. The cards have only the name of the person. The class is divided 
into 5-6 teams. The students are asked to work in their groups and collect as much information as they 
can about each famous person’s family to be able to answer the teacher’s questions. When the teacher 
presents a family-related problem, e.g., “Family members argue about chores”, each team must come up 
with a possible solution using the Present Perfect Tense, e.g., “Yasemin and her siblings have created a chore 
chart to avoid arguments”. The teacher encourages other students to ask follow-up questions, e.g., “How 
long have they been using the chore chart?”. Each team earns a point for correctly identifying the family 
problem, matching with an appropriate famous person, and providing solutions using the Present Perfect 
Tense. The winners get a badge that says, “Family Champion”. The teacher provides constructive feedback 
on students’ performances in terms of accurate and adequate use of target vocabulary and grammar and 
their presentation. Students write down one thing they did well and one thing they want to improve for next 
time. They also give a ‘stars’ rating (1-5) for their peer’s performance, followed by a short explanation: “I gave 
you 4 stars because your pronunciation is good, but you should give more details”. Students reflect on their 
thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To talk about relationships, problems, and solutions in the family, different families, and family 
houses in English by using target vocabulary and grammar. 
Activity 1: Family Feud
The teacher prepares a list of guesses about imaginary family problems in different families and as many 
identity cards of famous people as possible. Each group gets one copy of all cards. The cards have brief 
information about each famous person’s family. The class is divided into 5-6 teams. When the teacher 
presents a family-related problem, e.g., “Family members argue about chores”, each team must come up 
with a possible solution using the Present Perfect Tense, e.g., “Yasemin and her siblings have created a chore 
chart to avoid arguments”. The students are provided with a language box that includes sample grammar 
that students need to answer the questions. Each team earns a point for correctly identifying the family 
problem, matching with an appropriate famous person, and providing solutions using the Present Perfect 
Tense. The winners get a badge that says, “Family Champion”. The teacher provides constructive feedback 
on students’ performances in terms of accurate and adequate use of target vocabulary and grammar and 
their presentation. Students complete the beginning parts of sentences to reflect on one thing they did 
well and one thing they want to improve for next time. They also give a ‘stars’ rating (1-5) for their peer’s 
performance and a short explanation by completing sentence beginnings, e.g., “I gave you ________ because 
your __________ is good, but you should ___________”. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about 
the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_1015 =====
1015
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 5: LIFE IN THE NEIGHBOURHOOD & CITY & 
SOCIAL LIFE
Sub-themes: Sports events in the city and rural areas; 
pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the city
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in the neighbourhood and city and 
social life” and covers the sub-themes of “sports events in the city and rural areas; 
pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the city”. These components (sub-
themes) are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised 
use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and 
social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed 
to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within and 
beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 14 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.4. Self-Efficacy, D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.1. Empathy, 
D2.2. Responsibility, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, D2.5. Playfulness,  D3.1. 
Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.4. Seeking the Truth, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning, 
D3.9. Doubting, D3.10. Critical Perspective
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS8. Sustainability 
Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_1016 =====
1016
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Atatürk’s Principles and History of Revolution, Physical Education 
and Sports, Visual Arts, Music, Counselling and Career Planning, Technology and 
Design 
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering 
Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, 
CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. 
Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation 
Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.18. Argumentation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing 
Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.2. Problem 
Solving Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_1017 =====
1017
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 8 is structured based on inductive approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.8.5.L1.  Students can prepare and get ready for listening (to)/watching about the current content on 
“life in the neighbourhood and city including social life with sports events in the city and rural 
areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the city”.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience about the current theme and 
content to recall their background knowledge by investigating it carefully.
b) Students identify significant and necessary relationships and connections between their pre-
existing knowledge, their past experience and the clues to the current content by responding 
to meaningful questions about it (without speaking Turkish or using a translation).
c) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by using their pre-existing 
knowledge and past experience of the content.
d) Students make rational predictions about the current content by looking at the supplementary 
visual elements provided. 
ENG.8.5.L2.  Students can bring together the information in the current content on “life in the neighbourhood 
and city including social life with sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of 
living in rural areas and in the city”.
a) Students identify the main topic of the current content in general by listening (to)/watching it 
as a whole in its context. 
b) Students recognise the significant details and basic components of the current content within 
the whole by listening (to) and watching the whole content carefully to notice them.
ENG.8.5.L3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “life in the 
neighbourhood and city including social life with sports events in the city and rural areas; pros 
and cons of living in rural areas and in the city”.
a) Students check their initial predictions about the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between their self-predictions and the clues provided as visuals surrounding 
the content.
b) Students make significant and necessary classifications in the current content that affect the 
meaning of the generally perceived content.
c) Students make significant and necessary comparisons in the generally perceived current 
content to highlight differences between two or more different things by using visuals, ensuring 
clarity, and meaning.
d) Students recognise significant branching, linear or spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content.
e) Students make essential inferences and deductions to understand the meaning of the 
generally perceived current content better.
f) Students strongly recognise the holistic meaning formed by the components, comparisons, 
classifications, and details related to the current content.
g) Students construct a detailed understanding of the meaning of the current content through 
prior classifications, comparisons, and inferences/deductions.
h) Students position, internalise and personalise current content in an individualised, age-
appropriate and level-appropriate way.

===== PDF_PAGE_1018 =====
1018
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.8.5.L4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related 
to the listening (to)/watching process about the current content on “life in the neighbourhood 
and city including social life with sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of 
living in rural areas and in the city” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/
or with others.
a) Students individually convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings 
that are critically reviewed in relation to the current listening (to)/watching contents and the 
process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current listening (to)/watching content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce new audio/visual products individually by revising their personal work after 
participating in reflective activities related to the listening (to)/watching process of the current 
content.
ENG.8.5.P1.  Students can select and use target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases, clauses, and sentences in utterances authentically, naturally, 
and accurately in the current content about “life in the neighbourhood and city including social 
life with sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the 
city” to develop holistic and conscious pronunciation skills after recognising them in context. 
a) Students recognise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases and sentences in utterances within the current content by 
listening (to)/ watching it, first as a whole and then with pauses.
b) Students repeat utterances, including target sentences, clauses, phrases, and words with 
target theme-specific sounds by considering phonological aspects such as pronunciation and 
intonation accurately and naturally in the content several times as a whole class and then in 
groups and individually.
c) Students talk about the current content by taking part in small group conversations by paying 
attention to select and use accurate phonological aspects such as pronunciation, intonation, 
stress, and other features as they are understood.
d) Students reflect personally on their pronunciation and other target phonological aspects such 
as intonation after recording and listening to group conversations about the target content.
e) Students evaluate feedback from others and their personal feedback and reflection by 
listening to or watching the audio/visual content again to check for accuracy.
f) Students utilise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of utterances including target sounds of the current content, appropriately, effectively, 
accurately, naturally, automatically, and consciously when communicating with others in 
different contexts.
ENG.8.5.R1.  Students can prepare for reading the content on “life in the neighbourhood and city including 
social life with sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas 
and in the city” efficiently and effectively.
a) Students recall and activate significant pre-existing knowledge and past experiences that can 
be related to the current theme and content through careful exploration. 
b) Students recognise significant relationships between pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to current content.
c) Students make strong preliminary predictions about the current content based on explored 
and recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring and examining the 
audio-visual clues in relation to it.

===== PDF_PAGE_1019 =====
1019
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.8.5.R2.  Students can bring information together about the current content on “life in the neighbourhood 
and city including social life with sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of 
living in rural areas and in the city” through skimming, scanning and detailed reading.
a) Students skim the current content by looking very quickly and carefully at the surrounding 
visual materials to identify its general focus.
b)  Students scan the current content by reading it silently and quickly to find key and major 
components.
c) Students read the current content again silently and carefully to examine any significant 
semantic and structural details.
d) Students examine the semantic details in the content carefully to check the accuracy of their 
initial predictions.
ENG.8.5.R3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “life in the 
neighbourhood and city including social life with sports events in the city and rural areas; pros 
and cons of living in rural areas and in the city”.
a) Students classify significant and necessary elements of the current content in a meaningful 
way.
b) Students compare significant and key elements of the current content with each other or with 
similar ones in a meaningful way.
c) Students recognise significant and basic spiral, causal, and logical relationships in the current 
content through careful examination and analysis.
d) Students make meaningful inferences from information in the current content by examining 
it critically.
e) Students internalise their meaningful inferences from information in the current content in an 
individualised way appropriate to their age and language level.
ENG.8.5.R4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to 
the reading process about the current content on “life in the neighbourhood and city including 
social life with sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas 
and in the city” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content 
and process with others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
ENG.8.5.V1.  Students can select and use target vocabulary efficiently, effectively, and accurately, based 
on the current content about “life in the neighbourhood and city including social life with 
sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the city” 
after recognising them in context and developing their conscious and inductive vocabulary 
learning skills.
a) Students make predictions about the main topic of the current content by identifying “general 
contextual clues” from the visual, audio, and written preparation materials provided during the 
“listening/watching for gist” and/or reading for “skimming” sessions.
b) Students check the accuracy of the predictions related to the “general contextual clue” by 
listening to, watching, and/or reading the audio, visual, and/or written content in context.
c) Students search the target audio/visual, and/or written content by scanning to find key 
components of the theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_1020 =====
1020
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students listen/watch the content carefully and/or read it silently to identify and underline/
circle target unknown words.
e) Students separate target (key-active) words from the other (non-key-passive) words in the 
target content.
f) Students examine relevant target words, phrases, and expressions in the current content to 
understand how and where they are used.
g)  Students determine paragraph context clues to identify the topics of the parts/paragraphs 
containing unknown target words.
h)  Students discuss the meaning of the target words by finding indirect sentence context clues 
in the assigned sentences of the parts/paragraphs of the content.
i)  Students determine the correct meanings of the target words in the current content in pairs 
or groups by comparing the meanings/definitions proposed.
j) Students confirm the accuracy of the meanings/definitions of the target words in the current 
content by consulting with the teacher, the class and/or by using printed or digital dictionaries.
k)  Students make use of the target words of the current theme in a range of semantically 
associated contextual activities and tasks accurately, naturally, authentically, and 
appropriately.
l) Students make use of the target words of the current theme accurately, naturally, 
appropriately, and effectively through careful selection when communicating with others.
ENG.8.5.G1.  Students can select and use target grammatical language items efficiently, effectively, and 
accurately, based on the current content about “life in the neighbourhood and city including 
social life with sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas 
and in the city”, after recognising them in context and developing their conscious and inductive 
grammaring skills through consciousness-raising and discovery.
a)  Students listen to, watch, and/or read the audio, visual, and written current content presented 
in context that introduces the general use of the target language structures in the current 
theme.
b) Students examine example sentences provided by the teacher or instructional materials 
including target grammatical items to see how the target grammatical structure(s) of the 
target theme is/are used to construct a meaning or contribute to meaning.
c) Students analyse current audio, visual, and/or written content presented in context to identify 
sentences similar to those provided as examples.
d) Students find the commonalities between the sentences identified and those exemplified by 
the teacher or materials through careful comparison in pairs and/or groups.
e) Students discover the characteristics of the commonalities in the sentences in the current 
content by discussing them in pairs or groups as an awareness/consciousness-raising activity.
f) Students formulate rule(s) about the same/target grammar structure(s) of the current theme 
based on their observations and discussions in pairs or groups.
g)  Students engage in contextual activities on the use of target grammatical structures 
(grammaring) of the current theme to explain and justify the grammar rule(s) they have 
discovered.
h)  Students practise to consolidate their understanding of the target grammar that they 
discovered by selecting accurate and meaningful items in meaningful and contextualised 
activities.
i) Students produce accurate and unique verbal or written content by using target grammar 
consciously and in a natural way, without thinking about the rules.

===== PDF_PAGE_1021 =====
1021
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
j) Students produce new spoken/written content by using the target grammatical structures 
efficiently, authentically, automatically, and naturally in context when communicating with 
others without thinking about rules.
ENG.8.5.W1.  Students can prepare for writing efficiently and accurately based on the current content 
about “life in the neighbourhood and city including social life with sports events in the city and 
rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the city”.
a) Students relate pre-existing knowledge and experiences from initial listening, watching, and 
reading processes to current content by examining and activating them.
b) Students understand what the current writing task requires in terms of content and purpose in 
relation to the current content accurately by applying pre-existing knowledge and experiences, 
following guided instructions.
ENG.8.5.W2.  Students can analyse and understand a provided model to guide them in producing similar 
writing tasks related to the content on “life in the neighbourhood and city including social life 
with sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the 
city”.
a) Students grasp the significant and basic components of the content in the model/sample 
provided for the assigned writing task, including word selection and use, grammar selection 
and use, and other details such as type, style, and meaning as required.
ENG.8.5.W3.  Students can construct new written content on “life in the neighbourhood and city including 
social life with sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas 
and in the city” based on their understanding of the model(s) provided.
a) Students share their ideas and thoughts by brainstorming through collaborative discussion to 
generate ideas for the new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current 
theme.
b) Students plan how the knowledge and ideas generated during the brainstorming session can 
be applied to their new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current theme.
c) Students conduct preliminary research relevant to the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) 
writing task on the current content, considering the type of writing, age appropriateness, and 
language level.
d) Students produce a well-organised and detailed draft relevant to the (prepared and/or 
unprepared) type of writing and appropriate for the age and language level.
e) Students organise and develop contextual materials relevant to the type of the assigned task 
(prepared and/or unprepared) and appropriate to age and language level.
f) Students modify the content they produce for the assigned writing task in a coherent and 
meaningful way, consistent with the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) type of writing, 
and appropriate to the age and language level.
ENG.8.5.W4.  Students can practise producing written content based on the current theme “life in the 
neighbourhood and city including social life with sports events in the city and rural areas; 
pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the city”.
a) Students present relevant supportive materials appropriate to the assigned (prepared and/
or unprepared) writing task, considering the type of writing and appropriate to the age and 
language level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and strategies for the assigned (prepared 
and/or unprepared) writing task, considering its writing type and appropriate to their age and 
language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_1022 =====
1022
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students use target words and grammatical language structures accurately and appropriately 
in their writing tasks, by selecting necessary and appropriate ones in line with the assigned 
type of writing and appropriate to the age and language level.
d) Students express their messages about the current content clearly to the reader in the 
assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task.
ENG.8.5.W5.  Students can engage in the process of writing related to the content on “life in the 
neighbourhood and city including social life with sports events in the city and rural areas; 
pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the city”.
a) Students review the feedback from the teacher and/or peers critically on their prepared and/
or unprepared writing task(s).
b) Students revise to reorganise the written content of their prepared and/or unprepared task 
based on the feedback received from the teacher and/or peers.
c) Students refine and develop their written content produced for their prepared/unprepared 
writing task through the iterative feedback process.
ENG.8.5.W6.  Students can reconstruct their writing about the current theme on “life in the neighbourhood 
and city including social life with sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of 
living in rural areas and in the city” to communicate effectively about it.
a) Students adapt and use individually internalised information in current or similar content by 
selecting and reorganising it meaningfully in written form as necessary when communicating 
with other people in different contexts.
b) Students exchange information and ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge and content with others.
ENG.8.5.W7.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the writing 
process about the current content on “life in the neighbourhood and city including social life 
with sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the 
city” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings they review 
critically in relation to their current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current writing-expression content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce their new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current writing-expression content and process.
ENG.8.5.S1.  Students can prepare themselves to speak meaningfully, fluently, and efficiently about the 
current content on “life in the neighbourhood and city including social life with sports events in 
the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the city”.
a) Students relate current content by analysing pre-existing knowledge and experiences from 
earlier listening, watching, and reading sessions to associate them with the current content.
ENG.8.5.S2.  Students can analyse and understand the model content related to “life in the neighbourhood 
and city including social life with sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of 
living in rural areas and in the city” to support the production of spoken language.
a) Students grasp what the provided model/example is about with the help of audio, visual, and/
or written elements after listening, watching, and/or reading the current content.

===== PDF_PAGE_1023 =====
1023
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.8.5.S3.  Students can produce meaningful and accurate spoken content related to the current theme 
on “life in the neighbourhood and city including social life with sports events in the city and 
rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the city”.
a) Students recognise which form and type of spoken content is expected and assigned based on 
the model/example about the current theme for both prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations through careful examination.
b) Students conduct preliminary research on the expected and assigned content to be produced 
for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students develop a draft outline in accordance with the assigned prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations as presented in the model/example, appropriate to the age and language 
level based on the current theme.
d) Students organise supplementary audio-visual materials in accordance with the assigned 
task as presented in the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations 
and appropriate to their age and language level. 
e) Students organise information related to the current content to be presented, appropriate to 
the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
f) Students critically review their prepared presentation content for accuracy, coherence, and 
appropriateness to audience and context in prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.8.5.S4.  Students can construct meaningful spoken content about “life in the neighbourhood and city 
including social life with sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in 
rural areas and in the city” through efficient and meaningful practice.
a) Students make spoken content clear and understandable to listeners by selecting and using 
style and form appropriate to age and language level in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
b) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using materials appropriate to the 
context, age, language level, style, and type of discourse, similar to those presented in the 
model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using target vocabulary and language 
structures similar and/or appropriate to those presented in the model/example considering 
their age, language level, context, style, and type of discourse for prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations.
d) Students convey relevant explicit, implicit, and/or complex messages related to the current 
content clearly in context to the listeners by using appropriate material and body language in 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
e) Students convey their messages about the current content clearly to the listeners by 
incorporating all the necessary semantic elements in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
ENG.8.5.S5.  Students can reconstruct the information about “life in the neighbourhood and city including 
social life with sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas 
and in the city” when communicating with others.
a) Students use the same or similar information presented in the current content in verbal or 
written forms in different contexts by reorganising it meaningfully, accurately, effectively, 
efficiently, functionally, and individually as required.
b) Students engage in verbal and/or written communication by sharing the reconstructed 
meaningful information about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_1024 =====
1024
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.8.5.S6.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the speaking 
process about the current content on “life in the neighbourhood and city including social life 
with sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the 
city” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students reveal their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they review critically 
in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
critically review in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process with 
others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_1025 =====
1025
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN THE NEIGHBOURHOOD & CITY & SOCIAL LIFE
Sub-themes: sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the city
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for sports events in the city and rural areas: 
Nouns: Equipment, an injury, an award, a prize, a final, a trainer (a coach-AmE.), a winner.
Verbs: To apply (for a race/competition), to fall, to hurt, to hit, to sail, to receive, to reach, to involve.
Adjectives: Fit, fair, professional, broken, far. 
Adverbs: Finally.
Vocabulary for pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the city: 
Nouns: Nature, noise, an insect, an opportunity, lifestyle, fishing, farming, an option, the environment, peace, 
countryside.
Verbs: To afford, to connect, to last.
Adjectives: Natural, reduced, certain.
Adverbs: Exactly. 
Phrases: Low/high cost of living, affordable housing, less pollution, less stress, medical services (healthcare 
services-AmE.), crime rates, noise pollution.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations:  “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will be 
age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A table 
for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Present Perfect Tense: (They have never dealt with noise pollution in their peaceful rural environment).
-Question tags: (He has reached the final round of the competition, hasn’t he?)
-Forming nouns from verbs using -ing: (Sailing is a great option for living a natural lifestyle by the coast).
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of the Present Perfect Tense: Expressing actions or events that occurred at an unspecified time in the 
past and have relevance to the present.
-Use of question tags: Seeking confirmation or agreement about an action or statement related to the 
present perfect.
-Use of forming nouns from verbs using -ing: Creating gerund forms of verbs to describe activities or ongoing 
actions as nouns.
Target Social Language in Use:
I love the peace and quiet in the countryside! 
The city can feel like a concrete jungle!
Living close to the city is the best of both worlds!  
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
f, g, h, i, j, k
Vowel: i: (/aı/, /ı/, /i:/)

===== PDF_PAGE_1026 =====
1026
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Consonants:  f: (/f/);  g:(/g/, /dʒ/);  h: (/h/); j (/dʒeɪ/, /dʒ/);  k: (/k/)
 *(Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme).
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” and its components such 
as “sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the city” is present in 
almost all languages. People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them 
and transfer it to their new language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know 
what “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” and its components such as “sports events in the 
city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the city” means but will not know how to say 
them in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing 
knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the new information more 
easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts:
Sports events, cities, rural areas, sport events in the city, sport events in the rural areas, pros and cons, 
living, pros and cons of living in the rural areas, pros and cons of living in the city.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students can create a fun marketing book to tell the pros and cons of living 
in rural areas. In the book, they will use drawings, photos, slogans, and short texts to share what rural life 
is like, including sports events, community activities, and daily routines. They will add persuasive text and 
creative slogans to highlight the benefits of rural life, such as fresh air, open spaces, and a strong community 
feel, while also mentioning any challenges. The assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a 
rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” and 
its components such as “sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and 
in the city”. As they are lower secondary school students in year 8 (eight), they can know what “life in the 
neighbourhood and city and social life” and its components such as “sports events in the city and rural areas; 
pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the city”  mean in their own language as it is known that almost 
all people who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with 
them and transfer it to their new language learning context. However, they may not know how to say these 
things in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this 
existing knowledge in their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily 
in a foreign language, in this case English.
As they are students in year 8 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “life in 
the neighbourhood and city and social life” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous 
themes and/or years. These grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at 
the beginning of the year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical 
items in the current theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about the “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” and its components such as “sports events 
in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the city”. Recalling and practising with 
relevant vocabulary and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be 
helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “life in the neighbourhood 

===== PDF_PAGE_1027 =====
1027
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
and city and social life”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary and grammatical 
items from the previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. 
In this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are 
able to understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the 
current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge 
and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated 
by rubrics throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students are asked to recall the concept of “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” by remembering 
their pre-existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to 
make links with the current activities in the theme in English without saying anything in Turkish and without 
translating anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English. To 
remind them of their pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, 
many materials such as “a scene from a short film, a passage from a book, a part from a personal diary 
(journal),  a part of a story, a collection of pictures, a part of an animation, a poster, an excerpt from a video 
etc.” related to this content can be shared with the class before the main teaching/learning flow begins. 
The materials about the current concept would give a general idea of the theme. Students are work on the 
material according to the instructions and try to grasp it. The teacher tries to check if they have an idea 
about the topic of the new theme with several activities. When they have finished working on them, the 
teacher asks them in English if they have understood what has been in the material. She/He asks them to 
write a related words that they already know (learnt in previous years) in English on a piece of paper and put 
it in the jar/ box that she/he has prepared. Alternative ways for checking their comprehension could be tried 
by the teacher.
They wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the theme, the digital 
introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme  “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” in the classroom, 
to prepare the students emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-
up activity can be done as an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning 
process in class for their well-being (D1.5, V12.1, V13.4) .This could be an activity such as a short game, a 
physical activity, listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue 
twister, listening to an anecdote, a very short story, watching a pantomime/online story, etc. that has no 
relation or connection to the current theme and does not require any knowledge of the current theme in 
English (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.4, V7.2, V13.2, LS4).That is only for relaxation and preparation for the lesson.
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills are used in an integrated way around a central topic “life in the neighbourhood and city and 
social life” and the sub-themes of “sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas 
and in the city”, allowing students to build background knowledge through receptive skills before moving on 
to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are 
integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive 
to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely linked way that means 
each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development and to increase communicative 
competence. The theme “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” is characterised by a balanced 
integration of all the skills, where students engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension and 
reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with 
the help of their grammar, vocabulary and phonological selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_1028 =====
1028
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.5.L1.
PREPARATION FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students prepare to access the introduction to the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to remember what they have done during the “establishing links” 
session for recalling background knowledge about the related concept where they watched a short film scene 
prepared for that section (which is not a part of the introductory digital story of the theme) (D3.2, V3.4,LS1, 
LS2, LS4). They remember what they already know about the content to prepare themselves to work on 
guessing the topic of the current theme  (V1.2, V13.2, LS1, LS5) .They prepare to access the main materials 
of the theme for having connections by making predictions based on the short film in the “establishing links” 
session (D3.8, V3.3, LS1, LS4).
ENG8.5. L2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER BY LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students collect “general context clues” to 
understand the whole content by looking at visual clues before listening (to)/watching. The teacher asks the 
students to look at any visual material such as pictures, posters, and realia related to the current content to 
identify the topic of the content and to answer the question “What is the whole content about?” (D3.6, V1.2, 
V13.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.2).They can realise that there might be different elements related to this concept 
(D2.1, V4.5).The teacher asks them to look at the visuals quickly to make predictions about the topic of the 
whole theme by using the “listening (to)/watching for gist” strategy before listening/watching the main visual 
material of the theme, which is the introductory digital story (D3.8, V4.5, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.11).The teacher 
asks the students to read the title of the theme and asks them to brainstorm by thinking about which words 
they already know and whichwords come to mind in connection with the title (D3.4, LS2, CS2.12, CS2.16.2).
She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new/target words they do not know at this stage of 
the lesson. She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity to guess the general topic/theme of the 
context by using the words they already know and that there will be time to work on the new words of the 
current content later (D1.4, V12.2).At this stage, some guessing games can be played to guess the main topic 
of the current content/theme by using the clues from the additional visuals such as pictures, posters, etc. 
related to the content, prepared and produced by the teacher, by using web 2.0 tools (D2.5, D3.3,SELS2.1, 
V3.4, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG8.5.L3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  Students identify and recognise the topic of the 
current theme by listening (to)/watching the introductory digital story that provides a context for the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen (to)/watch the introductory digital story to recognise the 
topic of the theme in general (This is a kind of preparation to work on the target key vocabulary in the later 
stages of the lesson(s) (D3.2, V3.4).The teacher asks the students to recall the work done with visuals (the 
scene from a short film) in the “establishing links” session about the current context shown earlier during the 
listening (to)/ watching session (D3.2, LS2).Students watch the digital introductory story and consolidate 
the identification of the target theme as a whole (CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that 
the students can hear/ see the context as a whole and understand the theme holistically (D3.1, V1.2, V13.2, 
LS2, LS4, LS5).
MAKING MEANING THROUGH THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE THEME BY LISTENING/W ATCHINfG:  
Students find and identify the main components of the current content by listening (to)/watching the context 
quickly through scanning. The teacher organises a scanning activity to find out the components as the basic 
and most important details of the current content through the introductory digital story to help students 
learn and know more about the current theme. She/He asks the students to listen and watch the story again 
without stopping, by scanning/looking for any relevant words or concepts that are heard in the story (D3.6, 
V3.4, LS2, LS4, LS7).The teacher hands out a sheet to the students on which there is a list of words/phrases, 

===== PDF_PAGE_1029 =====
1029
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
etc. to tick, circle or underline. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard through watching the 
story very quickly without stopping. The teacher could apply different versions of scanning activities such 
as finding important elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not 
take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, LS1, CS2.4). In this way, they will be able 
to understand the story in general through the main elements and components by eliminating the irrelevant 
ones. Students share with the whole class the words and components they have found and ticked/circled/
underlined on the list given by the teacher to them (D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.4).Then they discuss the accuracy of 
the findings as a whole class (SELS2.2, CS2.8). This is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After having watched the introductory digital 
story, the teacher places five headings on the smart board/whiteboard/blackboard which are on the target 
vocabulary list of the related theme as clues to the components of the current theme (D3.7, V1.2, V13.2, LS5).
She/He places a corresponding picture next to each component and writes the name of each heading. She/
He guides students to understand the heading of each category with the help of pictures. The teacher asks 
the students to work with the words they already know during this phase of the lesson (SELS1.2). Students 
work on these categories with the help of the scenes from the introductory digital story (D3.6, LS2, LS4) .
The teacher reads the headings aloud a few times by pointing to the corresponding pictures on the board and 
the students repeat them. Then the students say the headings all together. For working on the sub-themes 
of “sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the city” further, the 
teacher asks volunteers to go to the board and choose the picture (already provided by the teacher) to stick/
pin/ drag it on the white/black board or the smart board (if the teacher asks) (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.2,V3.4, 
V20.4, LS2, LS4). Then, they say the headings (components) together as a whole class. In this way, the main 
components of the theme “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” are introduced to the students 
in English (LS5). At this stage, the meanings of the target words are not studied, but the categorisation of 
the basic components contributes to their recognition of the concept in general. The teacher could ask 
the students to decide which words in the introductory digital story they do not know and to note them 
while reading the text later in the reading session (D1.2, D1.6, D3.8, SELS1.1, V3.4). This could be evaluated 
as described in items (1), (2), (3), (6) (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum. All this work helps them understand the main categories through classifications and 
also the inferences they make while listening to and watching the introductory digital story and/or examining 
the picture related to the content. In this way, they recognise and comprehend the main concept as a whole 
through categorisation, comparison, and inference (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5, V3.3, LS2,LS4, LS7).
 
ENG8.5.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS: Students check the accuracy of their prior guesses, 
reflect on their ideas and feelings about the listening/watching session, and give feedback to each other. 
After the students listen (to)/watch the introductory digital story to find the main components of the theme, 
the teacher asks them whether their guesses they made during the “establishing links” session, looking at 
visuals session, and their first listening (to)/watching session have been correct (D3.8,V4.2, V4.3, LS2, LS4). 
As they have already seen a scene from a short film created about the concept of the current theme, during 
the “establishing links” session earlier, and looked at some supplementary visuals (pictures, the title of the 
theme) and also they saw the picture related to the introductory digital story they can easily answer what the 
current theme is about and that their guesses were correct (D3.4, V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8).The teacher 
asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole listening (to)/
watching process and students talk about them individually (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole class 
(D2.3, SELS.2.1, V4.2). After the reflection and feedback session, they talk again about the components of 
the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their ideas (SELS2.2, V4.2, V10.3).

===== PDF_PAGE_1030 =====
1030
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.5.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Students recognise the pronunciation and other phonological 
aspects of target utterances, including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen (to)/watch an extract from the introductory digital story as 
the main context for noticing the target phonological elements (LS1, LS2, LS4) . She/He asks them to pay 
attention to the target pronunciation and/or other phonological aspects in the current content. The teacher 
asks them to notice how the target phonological aspects are used in context. Starting with the extract from 
the digital story, students go on with other contextual examples and activities to hear and understand the 
use of target elements in context (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION (AND OTHER PHONOLOGICAL ASPECTS) : Students 
select and use accurate, natural, and authentic target pronunciation and other phonological aspects of the 
target utterances including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme “life in the 
neighbourhood and city and social life”. After recognition activities, students repeat the target utterances 
including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme aloud a few times as a 
whole class with accurate and natural pronunciation and other phonological aspects after listening (to)/
watching the recordings that the teacher has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes or 
some other AI-based technologies (D3.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2). To help the students pronounce the target 
utterances including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds accurately, the teacher could offer 
variations with some techniques such as showing the target utterance to the students and they say it or 
letting them listen to the recording, then turning off the recording randomly and students say the utterances 
they hear from the recording (D3.2, D3.7, D2.3). Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as 
shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound 
exercises by getting help from AI technologies (D2.5,SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2, LS4). Along with the 
target utterances, the target sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are also 
practised in the same ways. This is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) as described in the section 
1.2.Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7).
FURTHER PRACTICE OF THE TARGET PRONUNCIATION : Students practise pronunciation with further 
activities for practice, consolidation, feedback and reflection. The teacher could use tape recording and 
feedback techniques. Students read aloud and record a text with the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the  current  theme   provided  by  the  teacher, at home (D1.2, D1.6, 
D2.3, SELS3.1, V4.1,V5.1, LS2, LS5) .They bring their recording(s) to school. First, they listen to the correct 
pronunciation of the text,provided by the teacher, in class. Then they listen to the recordings of individual 
students. During or after listening to the texts recorded by the students at home, the students give self-
feedback or peer feedback on the pronunciation of the words in the recordings (D2.4, D3.6, SELS1.3, 
SELS2.2, V4.1, V12.1, V14.1, LS1,LS5) . If available, a different version of the recording technique could be 
applied in the class. The teacher asks the students to discuss, say/talk about something, which they already 
know, related to the theme. Groups take turns to talk and the rest of the class listens (D2.3, D2.4, SELS2.2). 
During this session, the teacher records their discussions. After each group’s performance, the class listens 
to the recording for pronunciation and everyone gives feedback on it, including the individual students who 
have spoken during the discussion (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS1). The teacher can get 
help from AI-based technologies for these activities if available. Students’ performances are evaluated as 
explained in items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
pronunciation process and students talk about them individually (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole 
class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS2,CS2.15) . After the reflection and feedback 
session, they talk again about the components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their 
ideas (SELS1.2, V3.3, V6.2,V10.3, LS1, LS2).

===== PDF_PAGE_1031 =====
1031
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.5.V1
PREPARATION FOR THE WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To scan for finding the main components of 
the theme “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life”, the teacher asks the students to listen to and 
watch the introductory digital story to remember the topic of content mentioned in the previous listening/
watching sessions. The teacher also asks them to check their predictions made in the first listening/
watching session at the beginning of the lessons on the current theme once more again (D3.8, D3.2, D3.6, 
V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS7) .Then the teacher asks the students to read the relevant parts of the written 
version of the introductory digital story provided by the teacher by scanning (reading very quickly) to check 
the main components and categories with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, 
illustrations with the headings that the teacher has previously written on the smart board/white board/
blackboard in relation to the main components of the theme “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” 
(D3.7, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.8).Students read the written extract from the story 
very quickly to check the main components corresponding to the headings that the teacher has written on 
the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on the list (already provided by the teacher) at their seats 
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.4).The teacher could apply different versions of scanning activities such as finding important 
components, categories, and elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which elements 
do not take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes (LS1, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.8) .In this way, they can 
understand the story in general better with the help of reading this time after the listening/watching sessions 
held earlier through the main elements and components by eliminating the irrelevant ones (D3.2,D3.6, D3.7, 
V3.4, LS1, LS2, CS2.16.1).Students share with the whole class the components they have found and ticked/
circled/underlined on the list given by the teacher to them (D2.3, SELS2.1). Then they discuss the accuracy 
of the findings as a whole class (D2.4,D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, V16.3, LS1, CS2.8).
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  To read for the details for finding 
the new target vocabulary the teacher asks the students to read the written version of the introductory 
digital story (or another written text for working on the target vocabulary) in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity 
(D3.2, SELS2.2). One peer reads the first half of the story/text and the second peer reads the other half 
silently in a given time (V3.4, V4.1, V9.2, LS1, CS2.6).The teacher asks them to look out for new words whose 
meanings they do not know during this silent and detailed reading and asks them to look out for new (target) 
words they have previously noted during the listening/watching sessions (D1.2, D1.6, D3.6, D3.8, V3.3, V16.1, 
LS7).They are then asked to share these words with their peers without discussing their meanings in the text 
(D2.4, D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2,V6.2). The teacher starts working on the new (target) words here. In this way, 
they have a detailed reading, understand the story better, and find the new (target) words that they do not 
know to work on.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To separate key (active) and non-key (passive) target vocabulary 
in context: To check whether the students know any of the target key vocabulary about the content, the 
teacher asks them to say the new words whose meaning they do not know and which they have noticed 
and noted during their silent jigsaw reading session and the students do that (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, D3.2, D3.8, 
V3.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). When they say the words, the teacher writes them on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard by putting them on two lists. She/He writes the key (active) target words on one list and the 
non-key (passive) target words on the other list (that she/he has already decided on earlier when planning 
the lesson). She/He quickly covers the non-key words with examples, pictures, question-answers, however, 
spends more time on the key target words as described below (D3.2, D3.6, V1.2,V3.4, LS2, LS4).
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY:  To find “part/paragraph context clues” in the parts/paragraphs 
of the story (context): The teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again, paying 
attention to which part of the story the unknown words that they do not know are in the utterances (D3.2, 
D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4). He wants to introduce the meanings of the target key (active) vocabulary 
related to the theme that the students do not know part by part. Then she/he asks them to read the first 

===== PDF_PAGE_1032 =====
1032
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
part/paragraph in the written version of the story (or similar text) where the unknown words (active key 
target vocabulary) appear (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS5, LS7, CS2.8).Then she/he asks them whether they 
understand the meaning of the part/paragraph (D3.8, SELS3.1). She/He asks them to discuss the meaning of 
the part/paragraph in pairs in general without knowing the meaning of each new target word and asks what 
helps them understand the meaning of the part/paragraph( D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, LS1, LS7).Students discuss 
the meaning of the part/paragraph in pairs (D3.10, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.18) and report back to the class. The 
teacher takes notes on the board and writes what the part/paragraph is about in one word/clause/sentence 
in the story  (V6.2, LS1, LS5, CS2.16.1) .As each part/ paragraph covers a different but related piece of the 
whole topic, they realise that each part/paragraph contains new target words about a specific part of the 
whole theme. This helps them think about what each new target word in each part/paragraph could be about 
(D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, CS2.16.1). These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), and (8) 
in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To find “sentence clues”/“the indirect context clues” for the target 
key (active) words in the sentences in context: The teacher helps the students deal with each target key 
word by looking around these words in the sentences for collecting clues which can help them understand 
the meaning of these unknown target words. Starting from the first unknown target (key) word, students 
are asked to look at the words around the target (key) words (D3.2, D3.6, D3.8, D3.9, D3.10, SELS3.1, LS1, 
S2.1,CS2.16.3).These clues could be linking words, adjectives, adverbs, determiners, suffixes, prefixes, 
time expressions that can help them understand the meaning of the unknown target word (but they do not 
talk about the terminology and parts of speeches, instead they talk about the meanings and functions of 
these supportive surrounding words). The teacher asks students to work in pairs to go through and list the 
“indirect clues” for each word (D3.5,D3.7, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, CS2.7, CS2.17). When they finish working in 
pairs, the teacher goes through each word with the whole class and listens to what clues they have found 
to understand the meaning of the unknown target (key) word in the sentences (SELS3.1,V4.1, LS7).This is 
evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION AND SELECTION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To practise with the target words: To practise 
with the target vocabulary that the students work on through “sentence clues/indirect context clues”, the 
teacher checks their understanding again by showing them some realia that she/he has already provided 
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, LS5,CS2.5). The teacher shows them to the students and asks them to think about what 
they are and share them with their peers and then they check the answers with the whole class (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.19). Then the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again and 
shows the corresponding pictures to the students when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
story, without stopping the video while they are watching the story (LS2, LS4). When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the realia/visual elements, etc. about the content and asks in the form of two 
options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that they already know (D3.6, LS5, CS2.7, CS3.1).
As they have studied the words through the “part/paragraph and sentences clues” in reading the text earlier, 
the students can choose the correct option when they hear the words for the related theme and they answer 
them after talking about them in pairs (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, V6.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1).In this way they can 
further practise the meaning of the target words. These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), 
(6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section1.2 Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Further vocabulary practice through dialogical work: The 
teacher shows the story again, and from the beginning, whenever a target vocabulary item is mentioned in 
the story, the teacher stops the video and asks questions (or lets the students ask and answer each other). 
In this way, they are engaged in various dialogues and use the target words in these dialogues (D2.3, D3.8, 
SELS2.1,V4.1, V6.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.8).So, they revise and practise the meanings of the target (key) vocabulary 
of the theme “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life”. This kind of technique could be applied with 
different and enjoyable activities according to the preference of the teacher. These activities are conducted 

===== PDF_PAGE_1033 =====
1033
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
in the form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (2) and (6) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Further activities and games are played at 
this stage to reinforce the meaning of the target words by using several materials including AI-based and 
web 2.0 (D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4). They can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if 
there is a problem with technology. These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8) and 
(9) in the section in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Consolidation of the target vocabulary: To further practise 
the target vocabulary, the teacher can prepare an activity with images/pictures of target vocabulary using 
the web 2.0 tools. She/He mixes these images/pictures for the target vocabulary items and puts them in a 
raffle programme by using a web 2.0 tools or a real box in the classroom. She/He asks the students to take 
turns to go to the white/black board and to draw a picture related to the target components of the current 
theme (D2.3, SELS1.2). Then students say several things about the items in the picture (D1.5, D2.3, V3.4, 
LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.20). The teacher asks the students in their seats to take notes while the student at the 
white/black board talks about the picture she/he has drawn and to give feedback by raising yes/no cards, or 
correcting if there are mistakes, etc., and also repeat the sentences after him/her (D3.9, D3.10, SELS2.2, 
V3.4,CS3.3).When the student at the white/black board finishes, the teacher asks her/him to put the picture 
under the right category that she/he has previously placed on the white/black board earlier. In this way, 
images/pictures that are relevant to the concepts of the target theme will be revised and consolidated once 
again through categorisation (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5). The teacher asks the students to write a definition or an 
example sentence in their personal dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling and definitions (D1.2, D1.6, D3.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V6.2,CS2.20).
Students’ learning can be checked and evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. When the vocabulary session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the process. Students 
reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the whole class (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.1, SELS1.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, CS2.15). They also give feedback to each other (D2.1, D2.4, V6.1, V9.2, 
V10.3).
ENG8.5.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  Consciousness raising- 
discovery for the use of target language structures in inductive learning process: The teacher writes some 
sentences on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to read the sentences. Then she/he 
asks them to watch the introductory digital story again to draw their attention to the use of target grammatical 
structures of the theme “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” (D3.2, LS7).The introductory digital 
story is replayed so that the students can notice the use of language with the target grammar structures 
(LS2). While watching the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the language 
with the target grammatical structures is used. When the students finish watching the introductory digital 
story again, the teacher asks the students to read and examine the example sentences carefully (D3.2, D3.6, 
LS7, CS2.2, CS2.6, CS3.2). Then she/he asks the students to work in pairs and find similar sentences with 
the target grammar structure(s) in the theme to those written by her/him on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard (SELS2.2, V 3 .4, CS2.7).  The students look at the written version of the story and find similar 
sentences to those given by the teacher as examples (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.7). The teacher then asks 
the students to discuss and list the common features in these sentences and what kind of things are used 
repeatedly and why they think they are used in that way (D3.1, D3.6, D3.10, SELS3.1, V3.3, V4.2, CS2.4, 
CS3.3).Students examine the teacher’s example sentences, find the similar sentences in the written version 
of the story and discuss them by making a list of similarities and repeated commonalities (D3.6, SELS3.2, 
V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.7).The teacher asks the pairs to say what they have found (D2.3, CS2.10). 
As the pairs say what they have found, the teacher writes them on the board and gives the class time to 
look at them and think about them (D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.3, CS2.10, CS2.16.1, CS3.3). Then the teacher 

===== PDF_PAGE_1034 =====
1034
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
hands out a piece of paper and asks the students to make a rule about what they have noticed regarding 
the target structures. Students create a rule about the use of target grammatical structures of the theme 
by working in pairs and they read it to the class and give each other feedback on the rules (D3.1, SELS2.2, 
SELS3.3, V3.3, LS1, CS2.9,CS2.16.1).The teacher shows a sentence that explains the rule correctly and asks 
the students to check if their rules are correct or the teacher gives a table in which the rule for the language 
with the target grammatical structure is incomplete. She/He asks the students to complete it by working 
in pairs (D3.1, SELS2.2, V4.2).Then they check the rule as the whole class and reflect on their experiences 
on how and how much they have learnt (D2.4, SELS1.1, SELS1.3, V6.1, V10.3, LS1, CS2.15). This process is 
applied again for the other target grammatical structures in the theme if there are any. These activities are 
evaluated as described in items (5), (8) and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS IN CONTEXT:  Students practise the use of the 
language including the target grammatical structures: The teacher asks the students to work on grammar 
tasks she/he assigns (D2.2, D2.3, V3.3, V3.4, CS2.13). These tasks could be the ones that the teacher 
provides. The teacher shows some other contents in the form of a dialogue, a short paragraph, a short story, 
etc. with sentences including the target grammar structures and asks the students to find the sentences 
with the target grammatical structures in them and asks if they understand them easily (D3.2, D3.7, D3.10, 
CS2.13, CS2.20, CS3.3).She/He facilitates some oral or written activities and exercises for the students to 
further practise the target grammatical structures in context in pairs or groups (SELS2.2). She/He also 
facilitates more fun activities and games in which students talk, act out, mime, write, etc. with pen and 
paper, digital, AI-based, etc. materials and contexts so that they can practise and consolidate the target 
grammatical structures by selecting and using them accurately, efficiently, and naturally in context ( D2.5, 
D3.2, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, V4.4, LS2, CS2.13). They engage in several dialogic activities in which they share 
information, ideas and thoughts for communicating with their classmates. They exchange information and 
ideas to others by using target grammatical content (D3.5, SELS2.2, V3.4) .When the session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the grammar discovery and 
use process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.3, V6.1, LS6,CS2.15).They also give feedback to each other (D2.1, D2.4, 
V4.2, V10.3, SELS2.2).This is evaluated as described in items (5), (8) and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG8.5.R1
PREPARING FOR READING:  The teacher facilitates reading activities throughout the theme “life in the 
neighbourhood and city and social life” from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with 
precise techniques and the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout 
the theme in various forms and amounts as it is explained above (in the vocabulary section) in terms of how it 
is taught and when it needs to be clarified. Various reading styles such as silent reading, jigsaw reading and 
speed reading are used during the pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases. The ultimate aim of 
reading practice is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop critical thinking skills and the ability 
to comprehend and talk about the current content and related issues in a meaningful way (V3.2, LS1, CS3.3).
Students are provided a new text(s) to practise their reading skills through the current theme. They look at 
the surrounding visual materials, the title of the text and other supportive elements to guess the topic of 
the new reading content and they make predictions to be checked after reading the text (D1.1, SELS3.1,V3.3, 
LS4, CS2.2, CS2.11, CS2.16.2).

===== PDF_PAGE_1035 =====
1035
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.5.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING:  Students read the new reading text carefully 
to check their predictions made in the preparation session at the beginning of the lesson (SELS1.2, V3.4, 
LS1, CS2.8). Then they read the text very quickly (scanning) to check the main components and categories 
with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations that are provided by the 
teacher (V3.3,LS4, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.6). They compare the components they have found in the text with those 
written by the teacher on the smart board/whiteboard related to the sub-themes of “sports events in the city 
and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and in the city” (D3.6, V1.2, V13.2,LS2, LS5, CS2.7) ..
Students read the text very quickly to check that the main components correspond to the headings written 
by the teacher on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on the list (already provided by the 
teacher) at their desks (V3.4, LS7, CS2.8).The teacher could use different versions of the scanning activities 
as described in the “listening/watching- comprehension” section above. In this way, they can understand the 
text in general better with the help of scanning (CS2.16.1). They share the components with the whole class 
(SELS2.1) and then they discuss the accuracy of the results as a whole class  (D2.3, D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.2, 
LS1, CS2.8).
ENG8.5.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  Students read the new text silently in pairs in a jigsaw reading 
activity as they have done in the vocabulary session earlier  (D3.2, SELS2.2,V4.1).During the reading session, 
they look out for new words whose meanings they do not know (if there are any, other than the target words 
previously covered in the listening/watching-comprehension and vocabulary recognition sessions) (CS2.6). 
They work on the new words in the same way as in the vocabulary sessions. Then they deal with the semantic 
meaning conveyed in the text through display questions, then semi-closed activities and then open-ended 
activities  (V3.3, V6.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.6).They deal with the meaning by using strategies from the closed to 
the open-ended range to understand the theme “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” in terms 
of the sub-themes of “sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and in 
the city” mean from different perspectives to build their own understandings (D3.6, D3.8, SELS3.1, CS2.13). 
The teacher facilitates a number of activities to help the students improve their comprehension, synthesis 
and evaluation skills after applying the knowledge they have gained from the reading process (SELS3.2, 
SELS3.3, CS2.3, CS2.17, CS2.20).  After this stage, they work on activities to connect their knowledge and 
skills they have acquired about the current content with CLIL (history, maths, science, etc.) and cultural 
issues to be able to enrich their perspectives on the current theme (D3.5, SELS3.2, V1.2, V13.2,LS1, LS5, 
LS6, CS2.13, CS2.14) . In this way, they will have the opportunity to develop their knowledge and language 
competence through reading. They can have the opportunity to develop their cognitive, emotional, cultural, 
social, and creative skills through the process of reading (SELS3.3, V7.2, CS2.20).
ENG8.5.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING PROCESS: Students reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation 
to the whole reading-comprehension process (SELS1.3). They talk about them individually and then share 
them with the whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1,V4.2, CS2.15).After the reflection and feedback session, 
they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1, 
LS1).
ENG8.5.W1.
PREPARATION FOR WRITING-EXPRESSION:  Students are facilitated throughout the theme with writing 
activities, from the first lesson to the last when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount of writing. At the beginning of the writing process, students recall their pre-existing 

===== PDF_PAGE_1036 =====
1036
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
knowledge about the current content to make a link between what they know and what they are going to 
write about (D3.2, SELS1.1, CS2.12).  This includes examining all the audio/visual sources and elements 
provided for understanding the writing task (V3.2,LS1, CS2.2).
ENG8.5.W2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL : Students listen (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the writing task they have been given (CS2.2). These are limited and short pieces of writing to see how the 
language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the written language, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme“life in the neighbourhood and 
city and social life”. Initially, they practise the language in a more controlled way, writing to repeat or simply 
explain what they have heard and seen and/ or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. 
At this stage, they try to understand how the language is used in the target content by examining the model/
example writing carefully (V3.4, LS2, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they 
can convey the knowledge they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they 
have developed in relation to current content in their later free writing tasks (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, LS1).
ENG8.5.W3.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WRITTEN CONTENT: After working on a sample/model writing task, students begin 
to produce/construct similar tasks of their own. They participate in several writing activities individually, in 
pairs, in groups and as a whole class (D2.3, SELS2.2,V4.1). Their products could range from writing a word 
to a phrase, a clause to a full sentence, a group of sentences to a short paragraph, an essay to a short story. 
These writing activities will help students to produce and display meaningful written language for personal 
expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language expressions in 
this theme as in others (SELS2.1, LS1, CS2.13).
ENG8.5.W4.
PRACTISING BY PRODUCING WRITTEN CONTENT: Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
essays, diaries/journals, blogs, scripts for plays, documentaries, films, etc. to express their ideas, thoughts, 
and feelings in relation to the current topic (D1.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.20). They take part in 
individual or collaborative projects to improve their writing skills together with social, cultural, cognitive, and 
affective aspects (D1.4, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2). Within this variety, they can find the opportunities to 
show how they can use the language that they have learnt to describe and comment on the current content 
for developing new ideas about them in different genres of writing, according to their potential needs for 
expressing themselves and communication with others (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V1.2, V13.2, LS5, CS2.14, 
CS3.3). Storification and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further writing 
practice (D2.5,LS9).
ENG8.5.W5.
PROCESS WRITING: Controlled writing of words, sentences and paragraphs turns to process writing with 
the support of the teacher’s and also peers’ feedback in the theme. This process is expanded and supported 
with additional activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, etc. to practise further by 
writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme in 
fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9,CS2.13, CS2.14). All 
the content is formed as contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests, 
and language level. Students improve their writing after reviewing the feedback they receive and this spiral, 

===== PDF_PAGE_1037 =====
1037
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
cyclical, and ongoing work becomes a progressive path for students (D3.1, SELS1.2, V12.3, LS1, CS3.1).
ENG8.5.W6.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students communicate their ideas, thoughts 
and feelings about the the sub-themes of “sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in 
rural areas and in the city” through their writing tasks (V1.2, V13.2, CS3.3).They can use AI-based technologies 
for various activities, by having access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital written materials 
and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways to interact and communicate with peers and/or other 
people inside and outside school by using the language including target words, language chunks, and the 
social language expressions for the relevant theme in their writing (D3.3, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V11.1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.20).All writing activities can be evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (5), (9), (10), (11) and (12) 
in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG8.5.W7.
REFLECTING THROUGH WRITING:  The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas 
and feelings in relation to the whole writing-expression process (SELS1.3) and students talk about them 
individually and share them with the whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3,SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15). After the reflection 
and feedback session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas (SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1,LS1).
SPEAKING-EXPRESSION
Practising through speaking from controlled to communicative stages: The teacher facilitates speaking 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the last. Speaking activities support students’ 
learning and help them to produce meaningful language for personal expression and communication with 
others, by using the language including the target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions of the theme (V3.4, V4.5, LS1, LS5).
ENG8.5.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING : In the beginning, students recall their background knowledge about the 
theme through listening/watching and/or reading and then they talk about it (SELS1.1, CS2.12).  Students 
practise the target language items in a controlled way, by saying, repeating, explaining what they hear and 
see in the context, for instance, in the introductory digital story and the listening and reading sections in 
different contexts (SELS3.2). Then they can expand their language use and practice in each section by 
increasing the amount of speaking they do (D1.3, V3.4, LS1, CS2.13).
ENG8.5.S2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL: Students listen (to)/watch and/or read some models of the 
speaking task they have been given (CS2.2). These are limited and short pieces of speaking to see how the 
language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the spoken language, after 
hearing them through listening activities in the theme. Initially, they practise the language in a more controlled 
way, repeating some utterances, simply explaining what they have heard and seen, and/or what they are 
asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to understand how the language is used 
in the target content by examining the speaking model/example carefully (V1.2,V13.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.19, 
CS3.2).They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge they have gained throughout the 
theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to the current theme in their later 
free speaking tasks (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, V3.4, LS5).

===== PDF_PAGE_1038 =====
1038
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.5.S3.
PRODUCTION OF MEANINGFUL AND ACCURATE CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons, the teacher 
prepares new contexts for the students in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading the language 
including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme “life in the neighbourhood 
and city and social life” in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS3.2, V7.2, LS9) .These newly 
created contents are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, 
and language level. They participate in such speaking activities individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole 
class (D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.20).
ENG8.5.S4.
CONSTRUCTING MEANINGFUL SPOKEN CONTENT:  Students produce various spoken content and their 
products could range from producing a simple utterance including a word to a phrase, a clause to a full 
sentence, a group of sentences to a short speech, a dialogue to a spoken presentation (SELS3.3, V3.4, 
CS2.20).These speaking activities will help students to produce accurate and meaningful spoken language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme “life in the neighbourhood and city and social life” as in others (D3.6, SELS2.1, 
CS2.13).
ENG8.5.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Collaborative and communicative activities are 
designed and used to revise and consolidate the whole theme “life in the neighbourhood and city and social 
life” on the sub-themes of “sports events in the city and rural areas; pros and cons of living in rural areas and 
in the city” (V4.5, LS5, CS2.13, CS2.14) .Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further speaking practice throughout the theme (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.1, V4.2, LS4, 
LS9).Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such 
as dialogues, speeches, short texts, presentations, etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people inside and/or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
chunks, and social language expressions for the current theme (SELS2.3, V3.4, V7.1, V7.2, LS1, CS2.20).AI-
based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They 
can also produce digital materials and projects for speaking at school and at home through recordings (D3.3, 
SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V7.3, V11.1, LS2).  All these speaking activities can be evaluated as described in items 
(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), (9), (10), and (11) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.
ENG8.5.S6.
REFLECTING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students are encouraged to reflect individually or collaboratively in 
groups on their own individual learning (SELS1.3) or on their collaborative learning in pairs, groups or as a 
whole class collaboratively (D2.3, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  The activities will help and support students in these 
feedback and reflection sessions. Their feedback is shared with peers and the teacher and takes the form 
of interactive and ongoing feedback that can help their own improvement (SELS1.2, SELS2.1) and also they 
contribute to the improvement of their peers in their learning processes (V4.1, V4.3,V12.1, V12.3, LS1).

===== PDF_PAGE_1039 =====
1039
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To talk about life in the neighbourhood, city, and social life in English by using target vocabulary 
and grammar.
Activity 1: Debate
The teacher starts by showing two contrasting images: one of a busy city and the other one of a quiet 
neighbourhood. Students brainstorm vocabulary related to each setting, e.g., crowded, peaceful, noisy, 
community-oriented, opportunities, and traffic. The class is divided into two teams: TeamCity and Team 
Neighbourhood. Each team discusses the advantages and disadvantages of living in their assigned location. 
Teams prepare their arguments using cause-and-effect (because, so, as) and contrasting language (while, 
whereas, but), e.g., “Cities have more opportunities because they are centres of business and education”, 
and “While cities are more dynamic, neighbourhoods are more peaceful and family-friendly”. Teams take 
turns presenting their arguments, with each student contributing at least one point. After each argument, 
the opposing team can ask questions or offer counter arguments using contrasting language, e.g., “But don’t 
you think neighbourhoods lack cultural activities compared to cities?” or “Although cities are exciting, don’t 
you think they’re also overcrowded?”. After the debate, students individually write a short paragraph about 
their personal preferences, e.g., “I prefer living in a neighbourhood because it is peaceful, but cities are too 
noisy for me”. The teacher provides constructive feedback on students’ performances in terms of accurate 
and adequate use of target vocabulary and grammar and their presentation. Students write down one thing 
they did well and one thing they want to improve for next time. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings 
about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To talk about life in the neighbourhood, city, and social life in English by using target vocabulary 
and grammar.
Activity 1: Debate
The teacher starts by showing two contrasting images: one of a busy city and the other one of a quiet 
neighbourhood. Students brainstorm vocabulary related to each setting, e.g., crowded, peaceful, noisy, 
community-oriented, opportunities, and traffic. The teacher gives more clues by pointing out some details 
and trying to elicit the answers. The class is divided into two teams: Team City and Team Neighbourhood. 
Each team discusses the advantages and disadvantages of living in their assigned location. Teams prepare 
their arguments using cause-and-effect (because, so, as) and contrasting language (while, whereas, but), 
e.g., “Cities have more opportunities because they are centres of business and education” and “While cities 
are more dynamic, neighbourhoods are more peaceful and family-friendly”. The teacher gives some sample 
sentences for students to use. Teams take turns presenting their arguments, with each student contributing 
at least one point. After each argument, the opposing team can ask questions or offer counterarguments 
using contrasting language, e.g., “But don’t you think neighbourhoods lack cultural activities compared to 
cities?” or “Although cities are exciting, don’t you think they’re also overcrowded?”. The teacher gives a bank 
of possible questions to guide the students. After the debate, students work in pairs to complete a short 
paragraph about their personal preferences, e.g., “I prefer living in ____________ because it is ________, but  
_________ are too __________ for me”. The teacher provides constructive feedback on students’ performances 
in terms of accurate and adequate use of target vocabulary and grammar and their presentation. Students 
write down one thing they did well and one thing they want to improve for next time. Students reflect on their 
thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_1040 =====
1040
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 6: LIFE IN THE WORLD AND CULTURE
Sub-themes: Different cooking styles and preferences 
in the world; different food cultures in the world
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in the world and culture” and covers 
the sub-themes of “different cooking styles and preferences in the world; 
different food cultures in the world”. These components (sub-themes) are 
integrated into the learning process through the contextualised use of target 
vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and social language 
expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, 
collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ 
developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this 
theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed 
to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school 
environment
CLASS HOURS 14 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.4. Self-Efficacy, D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.1. Empathy, 
D2.2. Responsibility, D2.3. Assertiveness,  D2.4. Trust, D2.5. Playfulness,  D3.1. 
Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.4. Seeking the Truth, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning, 
D3.9. Doubting, D3.10. Critical Perspective
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_1041 =====
1041
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Atatürk’s Principles and History of Revolution, Physical Education 
and Sports, Visual Arts, Music, Counselling and Career Planning, Technology and 
Design
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering 
Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, 
CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. 
Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation 
Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.18. Argumentation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing 
Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.2. Problem 
Solving Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_1042 =====
1042
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 8 is structured based on inductive approach.
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.8.6.L1.  Students can prepare and get ready for listening (to)/watching about the current content 
on “life in the world and culture with different cooking styles and preferences in the world; 
different food cultures in the world”.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience about the current theme and 
content to recall their background knowledge by investigating it carefully.
b) Students identify significant and necessary relationships and connections between their pre-
existing knowledge, their past experience and the clues to the current content by responding 
to meaningful questions about it (without speaking Turkish or using a translation).
c) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by using their pre-existing 
knowledge and past experience of the content.
d) Students make rational predictions about the current content by looking at the supplementary 
visual elements provided. 
ENG.8.6.L2.  Students can bring together the information in the current content on “life in the world and 
culture with different cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in 
the world”.
a) Students identify the main topic of the current content in general by listening (to)/watching it 
as a whole in its context. 
b) Students recognise the significant details and basic components of the current content within 
the whole by listening (to) and watching the whole content carefully to notice them.
ENG.8.6.L3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “life in the world 
and culture with different cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures 
in the world”.
a) Students check their initial predictions about the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between their self-predictions and the clues provided as visuals surrounding 
the content.
b) Students make significant and necessary classifications in the current content that affect the 
meaning of the generally perceived content.
c) Students make significant and necessary comparisons in the generally perceived current 
content to highlight differences between two or more different things by using visuals, 
ensuring clarity and meaning.
d) Students recognise significant branching, linear or spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content.
e) Students make essential inferences and deductions to understand the meaning of the 
generally perceived current content better.
f) Students strongly recognise the holistic meaning formed by the components, comparisons, 
classifications, and details related to the current content.
g) Students construct a detailed understanding of the meaning of the current content through 
prior classifications, comparisons, and inferences/deductions.
h) Students position, internalise and personalise current content in an individualised, age-
appropriate and level-appropriate way.
ENG.8.6.L4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to 
the listening (to)/watching process about the current content on “life in the world and culture 
with different cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in the 
world” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_1043 =====
1043
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students individually convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings 
that are critically reviewed in relation to the current listening (to)/watching contents and the 
process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current listening (to)/watching content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce new audio/visual products individually by revising their personal work after 
participating in reflective activities related to the listening (to)/watching process of the current 
content.
ENG.8.6.P1.  Students can select and use target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases, clauses, and sentences in utterances authentically, naturally, 
and accurately in the current content about “life in the world and culture with different cooking 
styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in the world” to develop holistic 
and conscious pronunciation skills after recognising them in context. 
a) Students recognise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases and sentences in utterances within the current content by 
listening (to)/ watching it, first as a whole and then with pauses.
b) Students repeat utterances, including target sentences, clauses, phrases, and words with 
target theme-specific sounds by considering phonological aspects such as pronunciation and 
intonation accurately and naturally in the content several times as a whole class and then in 
groups and individually.
c) Students talk about the current content by taking part in small group conversations by paying 
attention to select and use accurate phonological aspects such as pronunciation, intonation, 
stress, and other features as they are understood.
d) Students reflect personally on their pronunciation and other target phonological aspects such 
as intonation after recording and listening to group conversations about the target content.
e) Students evaluate feedback from others and their personal feedback and reflection by 
listening to or watching the audio/visual content again to check for accuracy.
f) Students utilise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of utterances including target sounds of the current content, appropriately, effectively, 
accurately, naturally, automatically, and consciously when communicating with others in 
different contexts.
ENG.8.6.R1.  Students can prepare for reading the content on “life in the world and culture with different 
cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in the world” efficiently 
and effectively.
a) Students recall and activate significant pre-existing knowledge and past experiences that can 
be related to the current theme and content through careful exploration. 
b) Students recognise significant relationships between pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to current content.
c) Students make strong preliminary predictions about the current content based on explored 
and recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring and examining the 
audio-visual clues in relation with it.
ENG.8.6.R2.  Students can bring information together about the current content on “life in the world and 
culture with different cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in 
the world” through skimming, scanning and detailed reading.
a) Students skim the current content by looking very quickly and carefully at the surrounding 
visual materials to identify its general focus.

===== PDF_PAGE_1044 =====
1044
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b)  Students scan the current content by reading it silently and quickly to find key and major 
components.
c) Students read the current content again silently and carefully to examine any significant 
semantic and structural details.
d) Students examine the semantic details in the content carefully to check the accuracy of their 
initial predictions.
ENG.8.6.R3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “life in the world 
and culture with different cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures 
in the world”.
a) Students classify significant and necessary elements of the current content in a meaningful 
way.
b) Students compare significant and key elements of the current content with each other or with 
similar ones in a meaningful way.
c) Students recognise significant and basic spiral, causal, and logical relationships in the current 
content through careful examination and analysis.
d) Students make meaningful inferences from information in the current content by examining 
it critically.
e) Students internalise their meaningful inferences from information in the current content in an 
individualised way appropriate to their age and language level.
ENG.8.6.R4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to 
the reading process about the current content on “life in the world and culture with different 
cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in the world” in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content 
and process with others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
ENG.8.6.V1.  Students can select and use target vocabulary efficiently, effectively, and accurately, based 
on the current content about “life in the world and culture with different cooking styles and 
preferences in the world; different food cultures in the world” after recognising them in context 
and developing their conscious and inductive vocabulary learning skills.
a) Students make predictions about the main topic of the current content by identifying “general 
contextual clues” from the visual, audio, and written preparation materials provided during the 
“listening/watching for gist” and/or reading for “skimming” sessions.
b) Students check the accuracy of the predictions related to the “general contextual clue” by 
listening to, watching, and/or reading the audio, visual, and/or written content in context.
c) Students search the target audio/visual, and/or written content by scanning to find key 
components of the theme.
d) Students listen/watch the content carefully and/or read it silently to identify and underline/
circle target unknown words.
e) Students separate target (key-active) words from the other (non-key-passive) words in the 
target content.
f) Students examine relevant target words, phrases, and expressions in the current content to 
understand how and where they are used.

===== PDF_PAGE_1045 =====
1045
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
g)  Students determine paragraph context clues to identify the topics of the parts/paragraphs 
containing unknown target words.
h)  Students discuss the meaning of the target words by finding indirect sentence context clues 
in the assigned sentences of the parts/paragraphs of the content.
i)  Students determine the correct meanings of the target words in the current content in pairs 
or groups by comparing the meanings/definitions proposed.
j) Students confirm the accuracy of the meanings/definitions of the target words in  the current 
content by consulting with the teacher, the class and/or by using printed or digital dictionaries.
k)  Students make use of the target words of the current theme in a range of semantically 
associated contextual activities and tasks accurately, naturally, authentically, and 
appropriately.
l) Students make use of the target words of the current theme accurately, naturally, appropriately 
and effectively through careful selection when communicating with others.
ENG.8.6.G1.  Students can select and use target grammatical language items efficiently, effectively, and 
accurately, based on the current content about “life in the world and culture with different 
cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in the world”, after 
recognising them in context and developing their conscious and inductive grammaring skills 
through consciousness-raising and discovery.
a)  Students listen to, watch, and/or read the audio, visual, and written current content presented 
in context that introduces the general use of the target language structures in the current 
theme.
b) Students examine example sentences provided by the teacher or instructional materials 
including target grammatical items to see how the target grammatical structure(s) of the 
target theme is/are used to construct a meaning or contribute to meaning.
c) Students analyse current audio, visual, and/or written content presented in context to identify 
sentences similar to those provided as examples.
d) Students find the commonalities between the sentences identified and those exemplified by 
the teacher or materials through careful comparison in pairs and/or groups.
e) Students discover the characteristics of the commonalities in the sentences in the current 
content by discussing them in pairs or groups as an awareness/consciousness-raising activity.
f) Students formulate rule(s) about the same/target grammar structure(s) of the current theme 
based on their observations and discussions in pairs or groups.
g)  Students engage in contextual activities on the use of target grammatical structures 
(grammaring) of the current theme to explain and justify the grammar rule(s) they have 
discovered.
h)  Students practise to consolidate their understanding of the target grammar that they 
discovered by selecting accurate and meaningful items in meaningful and contextualised 
activities.
i) Students produce accurate and unique verbal or written content by using target grammar 
consciously and in a natural way, without thinking about the rules.
j) Students produce new spoken/written content by using the target grammatical structures 
efficiently, authentically, automatically, and naturally in context when communicating with 
others without thinking about rules.
ENG.8.6.W1.  Students can prepare for writing efficiently and accurately based on the current content 
about “life in the world and culture with different cooking styles and preferences in the world; 
different food cultures in the world”.

===== PDF_PAGE_1046 =====
1046
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students relate pre-existing knowledge and experiences from initial listening, watching, and 
reading processes to current content by examining and activating them.
b) Students understand what the current writing task requires in terms of content and purpose in 
relation to the current content accurately by applying pre-existing knowledge and experiences, 
following guided instructions.
ENG.8.6.W2.  Students can analyse and understand a provided model to guide them in producing similar 
writing tasks related to the content on “life in the world and culture with different cooking 
styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in the world”.
a) Students grasp the significant and basic components of the content in the model/sample 
provided for the assigned writing task, including word selection and use, grammar selection 
and use, and other details such as type, style, and meaning as required.
ENG.8.6.W3.  Students can construct new written content on “life in the world and culture with different 
cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in the world” based on 
their understanding of the model(s) provided.
a) Students share their ideas and thoughts by brainstorming through collaborative discussion to 
generate ideas for the new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current 
theme.
b) Students plan how the knowledge and ideas generated during the brainstorming session can 
be applied to their new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current theme.
c) Students conduct preliminary research relevant to the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) 
writing task on the current content, considering the type of writing, age appropriateness, and 
language level.
d) Students produce a well-organised and detailed draft relevant to the (prepared and/or 
unprepared) type of writing and appropriate for the age and language level.
e) Students organise and develop contextual materials relevant to the type of the assigned task 
(prepared and/or unprepared) and appropriate to age and language level.
f) Students modify the content they produce for the assigned writing task in a coherent and 
meaningful way, consistent with the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) type of writing, 
and appropriate to the age and language level.
ENG.8.6.W4.  Students can practise producing written content based on the current theme “life in the 
world and culture with different cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food 
cultures in the world”.
a) Students present relevant supportive materials appropriate to the assigned (prepared and/
or unprepared) writing task, considering the type of writing and appropriate to the age and 
language level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and strategies for the assigned (prepared 
and/or unprepared) writing task, considering its writing type and appropriate to their age and 
language level.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language structures accurately and appropriately 
in their writing tasks by selecting necessary and appropriate ones in line with the assigned type 
of writing and appropriate to the age and language level.
d) Students express their messages about the current content clearly to the reader in the 
assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task.
ENG.8.6.W5.  Students can engage in the process of writing related to the content on “life in the world and 
culture with different cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in 
the world”.

===== PDF_PAGE_1047 =====
1047
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students review the feedback from the teacher and/or peers critically on their prepared and/
or unprepared writing task(s).
b) Students revise to reorganise the written content of their prepared and/or unprepared task 
based on the feedback received from the teacher and/or peers.
c) Students refine and develop their written content produced for their prepared/unprepared 
writing task through the iterative feedback process.
ENG.8.6.W6.  Students can reconstruct their writing about the current theme on “life in the world and 
culture with different cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in 
the world” to communicate effectively about it.
a) Students adapt and use individually internalised information in current or similar content by 
selecting and reorganising it meaningfully in written form as necessary when communicating 
with other people in different contexts.
b) Students exchange information and ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge and content with others.
ENG.8.6.W7.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the writing 
process about the current content on “life in the world and culture with different cooking styles 
and preferences in the world; different food cultures in the world” in relation to themselves or 
others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings they review 
critically in relation to their current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current writing-expression content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce their new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current writing-expression content and process.
ENG.8.6.S1.  Students can prepare themselves to speak meaningfully, fluently, and efficiently about the 
current content on “life in the world and culture with different cooking styles and preferences 
in the world; different food cultures in the world”.
a) Students relate current content by analysing pre-existing knowledge and experiences from 
earlier listening, watching, and reading sessions to associate them with the current content.
ENG.8.6.S2.  Students can analyse and understand the model content related to “life in the world and 
culture with different cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in 
the world” to support the production of spoken language.
a) Students grasp what the provided model/example is about with the help of audio, visual, and/
or written elements after listening, watching, and/or reading the current content.
ENG.8.6.S3.  Students can produce meaningful and accurate spoken content related to the current theme 
on “life in the world and culture with different cooking styles and preferences in the world; 
different food cultures in the world”.
a) Students recognise which form and type of spoken content is expected and assigned based on 
the model/example about the current theme for both prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations through careful examination.
b) Students conduct preliminary research on the expected and assigned content to be produced 
for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students develop a draft outline in accordance with the assigned prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations as presented in the model/example, appropriate to the age and language 
level based on the current theme.

===== PDF_PAGE_1048 =====
1048
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students organise supplementary audio-visual materials in accordance with the assigned 
task as presented in the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations 
and appropriate to their age and language level. 
e) Students organise information related to the current content to be presented, appropriate to 
the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
f) Students critically review their prepared presentation content for accuracy, coherence, and 
appropriateness to audience and context in prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.8.6.S4.  Students can construct meaningful spoken content about “life in the world and culture with 
different cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in the world” 
through efficient and meaningful practice.
a) Students make spoken content clear and understandable to listeners by selecting and using 
style and form appropriate to age and language level in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
b) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using materials appropriate to the 
context, age, language level, style, and type of discourse, similar to those presented in the 
model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using target vocabulary and language 
structures similar and/or appropriate to those presented in the model/example considering 
their age, language level, context, style, and type of discourse for prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations.
d) Students convey relevant explicit, implicit, and/or complex messages related to the current 
content clearly in context to the listeners by using appropriate material and body language in 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
e) Students convey their messages about the current content clearly to the listeners by 
incorporating all the necessary semantic elements in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
ENG.8.6.S5.  Students can reconstruct the information about “life in the world and culture with different 
cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in the world” when 
communicating with others.
a) Students use the same or similar information presented in the current content in verbal or 
written forms in different contexts by reorganising it meaningfully, accurately, effectively, 
efficiently, functionally, and individually as required.
b) Students engage in verbal and/or written communication by sharing the reconstructed 
meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.8.6.S6.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the 
speaking process about the current content on “life in the world and culture with different 
cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in the world” in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students reveal their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they review critically 
in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
critically review in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process with 
others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_1049 =====
1049
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN THE WORLD AND CULTURE
Sub-themes: different cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in the world
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for different cooking styles and preferences in the world: 
Nouns: A region, heat, sauce, dressing, a choice, a chance.
Verbs: To burn, to cover, to allow, to contain, to produce, to taste.
Adjectives: Covered, boiling, regional, deep, dry, ideal. 
Adverbs: Especially, before.
Phrases: A small amount of, dietary laws, regional cuisines.
Vocabulary for different food cultures in the world: 
Nouns:  A can, a top, a bottom, a bit, amount, fat, sauce, tip, a bowl, a dessert, a drink (a beverage-AmE.), 
beef, beans, quality.
Verbs: To pick, to complain, to recommend, to suggest, to organise.
Adjectives: Homemade, boiled, healthy, sweet, fried.
Adverbs: Already, recently, yet.
Phrases: To put on weight, to lose weight, at/on the top of.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July Democracy 
and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of Sacrifice (Eid-al-
Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will be 
age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A table 
for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-The Present Perfect Tense: (He has already recommended the ideal amount of sauce for the regional 
dessert).
-The Simple Past Tense: (They covered the boiling pot before the heat burned the food).
-The Simple Past Tense vs. The Past Progressive Tense: (She was organising the table while he picked the 
top-quality beef for the bowl.) (He dried the beans before they were boiling in the pot).
-Question tags: (They have recently suggested a healthy dietary choice, haven’t they?) (She covered the 
dessert with sauce, didn’t she?)
-Phrasal verbs: (The chef put on a bit of fat on the beef to improve the flavour.) (He complained about how the 
dish turned out after they put on too much heat).
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of the Present Perfect Tense: Expressing actions or events that occurred at an unspecified time in the 
past and have relevance to the present.
-Use of the Simple Past Tense: Describing completed actions or events that occurred at a specific time in 
the past.
-Use of the Simple Past Tense vs. the Past Progressive Tense: Comparing actions that were completed in the 
past with those that were ongoing or interrupted by other actions.
-Use of Question Tags for the past and present: Seeking confirmation or agreement about statements or 
actions related to past or present events.
-Use of Phrasal Verbs: Expressing actions or meanings using combinations of verbs and particles.

===== PDF_PAGE_1050 =====
1050
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Target Social Language in Use:
İstanbul is a real melting pot with so many cultures!
I ran into my classmate in London. It’s a small world!
The world is a global village now!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
l, m, n, (ng), o, p
Vowel: o:  (/əʊ/, /ɒ/, /əʊ/)
Consonants:  l: (/ɛl/ /l/); m (/ɛm/,/m/);   n: (/ɛn/, /n/); p: (/piː//p/)
*(Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme).
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “life in the world and culture” and its components such as “different cooking 
styles and preferences in the world, different food cultures in the world” is present in almost all languages. 
People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to their 
new language learning. For instance, a lower secondary school student will know what “life in the world and 
culture” and its components such as “different cooking styles and preferences in the world, different food 
cultures in the world” means but will not know how to say them in a foreign language if this has not yet been 
covered in their existing curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them 
recognise, understand, and learn the new information more easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts
Cooking, cooking style, different cooking styles, different cooking styles in the world, preferences, cooking 
preferences, different cooking preferences in the world, culture, food culture, different food cultures in the 
world.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT:  Students will work in pairs and explore the theme “life in the world and 
culture” with a focus on different cooking styles and food cultures around the world. Students will choose two 
countries and research their traditional cuisines, popular ingredients, and unique cooking techniques. They 
will compare and contrast the chosen cuisines, discussing how culture, geography, and history influence 
food traditions. The findings will be presented creatively in one of the following formats: a visually engaging 
poster with images and descriptions, a recipe booklet featuring two iconic dishes, or a short cooking demo 
video preparing a simple dish from one of the countries. Each of the students in pairs will present one of two 
countries in the classroom with a brief reflection on which cuisine they found most interesting and what they 
learned about the connection between food and culture. The assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric 
scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “life in the world and culture” and its components such 
as “different cooking styles and preferences in the world, different food cultures in the world”. As they are 
lower secondary school students in year 8 (eight), they can know what “life in the world and culture” and its 
components such as “different cooking styles and preferences in the world, different food cultures in the 
world” mean in their own language as it is known that almost all people who start to learn a new language 
bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own language) with them and transfer it to their new language 
learning context. However, they may not know how to say these things in a foreign language if this has not 
yet been covered in their existing curriculum. Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own language can 
help them recognise, understand, and learn them more easily in a foreign language, in this case English.

===== PDF_PAGE_1051 =====
1051
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
As they are students in year 8 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “life 
in the world and culture” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or 
years. These grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning 
of the year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the 
current theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable 
for learning about the “life in the world and culture” and its components such as “different cooking styles 
and preferences in the world, different food cultures in the world”. Recalling and practising with relevant 
vocabulary and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful 
as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “life in the world and culture”. 
Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary and grammatical items from the 
previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, 
their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to 
understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the current 
theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to 
facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by 
rubrics throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students are asked to recall the concept of “life in the world and culture” by remembering their pre-existing 
background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links with 
the current activities in the theme in English without saying anything in Turkish and without translating 
anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English. To remind them 
of their pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, many materials 
such as “a scene from a short film, a passage from a book, a part from a personal diary (journal),  a part of a 
story, a collection of pictures, a part of an animation, a poster, an excerpt from a video etc.” related to this 
content can be shared with the class before the main teaching/learning flow begins. The materials about 
the current concept would give a general idea of the theme. Students are work on the material according to 
the instructions and try to grasp it. The teacher tries to check if they have an idea about the topic of the new 
theme with several activities. When they have finished working on them, the teacher asks them in English 
if they have understood what has been in the material. She/He asks them to write a related words that they 
already know (learnt in previous years) in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/ box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways for checking their comprehension could be tried by the teacher.
They wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the theme, the digital 
introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme “life in the world and culture”  in the classroom, to prepare the students 
emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be done as 
an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class for their 
well-being (D1.5, V12.1, V13.4).This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, listening to/
singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to an anecdote, 
a very short story, watching a pantomime/online story, etc. that has no relation or connection to the current 
theme and does not require any knowledge of the current theme in English (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.4, V7.2, 
V13.2, LS4). That is only for relaxation and preparation for the lesson.

===== PDF_PAGE_1052 =====
1052
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills are used in an integrated way around a central topic “life in the world and culture” and the 
sub-themes of “different cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in the world”, 
allowing students to build background knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive 
tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to 
support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive 
in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity 
builds on the previous one to promote language development and to increase communicative competence. 
The theme  “life in the world and culture” is characterised by a balanced integration of all the skills, where 
students engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) and respond 
through output (speaking-expression and writing-expression) with the help of their grammar, vocabulary and 
phonological selection and use skills.
ENG8.6.L1.
PREPARATION FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students prepare to access the introduction to the whole theme. 
The teacher asks the students to remember what they have done during the “establishing links” session for 
recalling background knowledge about the related concept where they watched a short film scene prepared 
for that section (which is not a part of the introductory digital story of the theme) (D3.2, V3.4,LS1, LS2, LS4). 
They remember what they already know about the content to prepare themselves to work on guessing the 
topic of the current theme (V4.5, V5.1, LS1, LS5).They prepare to access the main materials of the theme for 
having connections by making predictions based on the short film in the “establishing links” session (D3.8, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4).
ENG8.6. L2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER BY LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students collect “general context clues” to 
understand the whole content by looking at visual clues before listening (to)/watching. The teacher asks the 
students to look at any visual material such as pictures, posters, and realia related to the current content to 
identify the topic of the content and to answer the question “What is the whole content about?” (D3.6, V4.5, 
V5.1, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.2) .They can realise that there might be different elements related to this concept 
(D2.1, V4.5).The teacher asks them to look at the visuals quickly to make predictions about the topic of the 
whole theme by using the “listening (to)/watching for gist” strategy before listening/watching the main visual 
material of the theme, which is the introductory digital story (D3.8, V4.5, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.11).The teacher 
asks the students to read the title of the theme and asks them to brainstorm by thinking about which words 
they already know and whichwords come to mind in connection with the title (D3.4, LS2, CS2.12, CS2.16.2). 
She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new/target words they do not know at this stage of 
the lesson. She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity to guess the general topic/theme of the 
context by using the words they already know and that there will be time to work on the new words of the 
current content later (D1.4, V12.2).At this stage, some guessing games can be played to guess the main topic 
of the current content/theme by using the clues from the additional visuals such as pictures, posters, etc. 
related to the content, prepared and produced by the teacher, by using web 2.0 tools (D2.5, D3.3,SELS2.1, 
V3.4, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG8.6.L3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  Students identify and recognise the topic of the 
current theme by listening (to)/watching the introductory digital story that provides a context for the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen (to)/watch the introductory digital story to recognise the 
topic of the theme in general (This is a kind of preparation to work on the target key vocabulary in the later 
stages of the lesson(s) (D3.2, V3.4).The teacher asks the students to recall the work done with visuals (the 

===== PDF_PAGE_1053 =====
1053
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
scene from a short film) in the “establishing links” session about the current context shown earlier during the 
listening (to)/ watching session (D3.2, LS2).Students watch the digital introductory story and consolidate 
the identification of the target theme as a whole (CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that the 
students can hear/ see the context as a whole and understand the theme holistically (D3.1, V4.5, V5.1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5).
MAKING MEANING THROUGH THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE THEME BY LISTENING/W ATCHINfG:  
Students find and identify the main components of the current content by listening (to)/watching the context 
quickly through scanning. The teacher organises a scanning activity to find out the components as the basic 
and most important details of the current content through the introductory digital story to help students 
learn and know more about the current theme. She/He asks the students to listen and watch the story again 
without stopping, by scanning/looking for any relevant words or concepts that are heard in the story (D3.6, 
V3.4, LS2, LS4, LS7).The teacher hands out a sheet to the students on which there is a list of words/phrases, 
etc. to tick, circle or underline. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard through watching the 
story very quickly without stopping. The teacher could apply different versions of scanning activities such 
as finding important elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not 
take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, LS1, CS2.4). In this way, they will be able 
to understand the story in general through the main elements and components by eliminating the irrelevant 
ones. Students share with the whole class the words and components they have found and ticked/circled/
underlined on the list given by the teacher to them (D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.4).Then they discuss the accuracy of 
the findings as a whole class (SELS2.2, CS2.8). This is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After having watched the introductory digital 
story, the teacher places five headings on the smart board/whiteboard/blackboard which are on the target 
vocabulary list of the related theme as clues to the components of the current theme (D3.7, V4.5, V5.1, LS5). 
She/He places a corresponding picture next to each component and writes the name of each heading. She/
He guides students to understand the heading of each category with the help of pictures. The teacher asks 
the students to work with the words they already know during this phase of the lesson (SELS1.2). Students 
work on these categories with the help of the scenes from the introductory digital story (D3.6, LS2, LS4) .
The teacher reads the headings aloud a few times by pointing to the corresponding pictures on the board and 
the students repeat them. Then the students say the headings all together. For working on the sub-themes 
of “different cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in the world”   further, the 
teacher asks volunteers to go to the board and choose the picture (already provided by the teacher) to stick/
pin/ drag it on the white/black board or the smart board (if the teacher asks) (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.2,V3.4, 
V20.4, LS2, LS4). Then, they say the headings (components) together as a whole class. In this way, the main 
components of the theme “life in the world and culture” are introduced to the students in English (LS5). At 
this stage, the meanings of the target words are not studied, but the categorisation of the basic components 
contributes to their recognition of the concept in general. The teacher could ask the students to decide 
which words in the introductory digital story they do not know and to note them while reading the text later in 
the reading session (D1.2, D1.6, D3.8, SELS1.1, V3.4).This could be evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), 
(6) (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. All this work 
helps them understand the main categories through classifications and also the inferences they make while 
listening to and watching the introductory digital story and/or examining the picture related to the content. In 
this way, they recognise and comprehend the main concept as a whole through categorisation, comparison, 
and inference (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5, V3.3, LS2,LS4, LS7).
 
ENG8.6.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS: Students check the accuracy of their prior guesses, 
reflect on their ideas and feelings about the listening/watching session, and give feedback to each other. 
After the students listen (to)/watch the introductory digital story to find the main components of the theme, 
the teacher asks them whether their guesses they made during the “establishing links” session, looking at 

===== PDF_PAGE_1054 =====
1054
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
visuals session, and their first listening (to)/watching session have been correct (D3.8,V4.2, V4.3, LS2, LS4). 
As they have already seen a scene from a short film created about the concept of the current theme, during 
the “establishing links” session earlier, and looked at some supplementary visuals (pictures, the title of the 
theme) and also they saw the picture related to the introductory digital story they can easily answer what the 
current theme is about and that their guesses were correct (D3.4, V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8). The teacher 
asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole listening (to)/
watching process and students talk about them individually (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole class 
(D2.3, SELS.2.1, V4.2). After the reflection and feedback session, they talk again about the components of 
the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their ideas (SELS2.2, V4.2, V10.3).
ENG8.6.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Students recognise the pronunciation and other phonological 
aspects of target utterances, including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen (to)/watch an extract from the introductory digital story as 
the main context for noticing the target phonological elements (LS1, LS2, LS4) . She/He asks them to pay 
attention to the target pronunciation and/or other phonological aspects in the current content. The teacher 
asks them to notice how the target phonological aspects are used in context. Starting with the extract from 
the digital story, students go on with other contextual examples and activities to hear and understand the 
use of target elements in context (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION (AND OTHER PHONOLOGICAL ASPECTS ): Students 
select and use accurate, natural, and authentic target pronunciation and other phonological aspects of the 
target utterances including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme “life in the 
world and culture”. After recognition activities, students repeat the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme aloud a few times as a whole class with accurate 
and natural pronunciation and other phonological aspects after listening (to)/watching the recordings that 
the teacher has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes or some other AI-based technologies 
(D3.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2).To help the students pronounce the target utterances including sentences, clauses, 
phrases, words, and sounds accurately, the teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as 
showing the target utterance to the students and they say it or letting them listen to the recording, then 
turning off the recording randomly and students say the utterances they hear from the recording (D3.2, 
D3.7, D2.3). Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, 
pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound exercises by getting help from AI 
technologies (D2.5,SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2, LS4).Along with the target utterances, the target sounds 
such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are also practised in the same ways. This is 
evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) as described in the section1.2.Principles for the Implementation of 
the English Curriculum (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7).
FURTHER PRACTICE OF THE TARGET PRONUNCIATION : Students practise pronunciation with further 
activities for practice, consolidation, feedback and reflection. The teacher could use tape recording and 
feedback techniques. Students read aloud and record a text with the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the  current  theme   provided  by  the  teacher, at home (D1.2, D1.6, 
D2.3, SELS3.1, V4.1,V5.1, LS2, LS5) .They bring their recording(s) to school. First, they listen to the correct 
pronunciation of the text,provided by the teacher, in class. Then they listen to the recordings of individual 
students. During or after listening to the texts recorded by the students at home, the students give self-
feedback or peer feedback on the pronunciation of the words in the recordings (D2.4, D3.6, SELS1.3, 
SELS2.2, V4.1, V12.1, V14.1, LS1,LS5) . If available, a different version of the recording technique could be 
applied in the class. The teacher asks the students to discuss, say/talk about something, which they already 
know, related to the theme. Groups take turns to talk and the rest of the class listens (D2.3, D2.4, SELS2.2). 
During this session, the teacher records their discussions. After each group’s performance, the class listens 
to the recording for pronunciation and everyone gives feedback on it, including the individual students who 

===== PDF_PAGE_1055 =====
1055
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
have spoken during the discussion (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS1). The teacher can get 
help from AI-based technologies for these activities if available. Students’ performances are evaluated as 
explained in items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
pronunciation process and students talk about them individually (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole 
class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS2,CS2.15) . After the reflection and feedback 
session, they talk again about the components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their 
ideas (SELS1.2, V3.3, V6.2,V10.3, LS1, LS2).
ENG8.6.V1
PREPARATION FOR THE WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To scan for finding the main components 
of the theme “life in the world and culture”,  the teacher asks the students to listen to and watch the 
introductory digital story to remember the topic of content mentioned in the previous listening/watching 
sessions. The teacher also asks them to check their predictions made in the first listening/watching session 
at the beginning of the lessons on the current theme once more again (D3.8, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, 
LS7).Then the teacher asks the students to read the relevant parts of the written version of the introductory 
digital story provided by the teacher by scanning (reading very quickly) to check the main components 
and categories with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations with the 
headings that the teacher has previously written on the smart board/white board/blackboard in relation to 
the main components of the theme “life in the world and culture”  (D3.7, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.4, CS2.8).Students read the written extract from the story very quickly to check the main components 
corresponding to the headings that the teacher has written on the board and then they tick/circle/underline 
them on the list (already provided by the teacher) at their seats (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4).The teacher could apply 
different versions of scanning activities such as finding important components, categories, and elements on 
a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever 
she/he likes (LS1, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.8) .In this way, they can understand the story in general better with the 
help of reading this time after the listening/watching sessions held earlier through the main elements and 
components by eliminating the irrelevant ones  (D3.2,D3.6, D3.7, V3.4, LS1, LS2, CS2.16.1). Students share 
with the whole class the components they have found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the 
teacher to them (D2.3, SELS2.1). Then they discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class (D2.4,D3.6, 
D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, V16.3, LS1, CS2.8).
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  To read for the details for finding 
the new target vocabulary the teacher asks the students to read the written version of the introductory 
digital story (or another written text for working on the target vocabulary) in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity 
(D3.2, SELS2.2). One peer reads the first half of the story/text and the second peer reads the other half 
silently in a given time (V3.4, V4.1, V9.2, LS1, CS2.6).The teacher asks them to look out for new words whose 
meanings they do not know during this silent and detailed reading and asks them to look out for new (target) 
words they have previously noted during the listening/watching sessions (D1.2, D1.6, D3.6, D3.8, V3.3, V16.1, 
LS7).They are then asked to share these words with their peers without discussing their meanings in the text 
(D2.4, D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2,V6.2). The teacher starts working on the new (target) words here. In this way, 
they have a detailed reading, understand the story better, and find the new (target) words that they do not 
know to work on.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To separate key (active) and non-key (passive) target vocabulary 
in context: To check whether the students know any of the target key vocabulary about the content, the 
teacher asks them to say the new words whose meaning they do not know and which they have noticed 
and noted during their silent jigsaw reading session and the students do that (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, D3.2, D3.8, 
V3.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). When they say the words, the teacher writes them on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard by putting them on two lists. She/He writes the key (active) target words on one list and the 

===== PDF_PAGE_1056 =====
1056
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
non-key (passive) target words on the other list (that she/he has already decided on earlier when planning 
the lesson). She/He quickly covers the non-key words with examples, pictures, question-answers, however, 
spends more time on the key target words as described below (D3.2, D3.6, V1.2,V3.4, LS2, LS4).
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY:  To find “part/paragraph context clues” in the parts/paragraphs 
of the story (context): The teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again, paying 
attention to which part of the story the unknown words that they do not know are in the utterances (D3.2, 
D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4). He wants to introduce the meanings of the target key (active) vocabulary 
related to the theme that the students do not know part by part. Then she/he asks them to read the first 
part/paragraph in the written version of the story (or similar text) where the unknown words (active key 
target vocabulary) appear (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS5, LS7, CS2.8).Then she/he asks them whether they 
understand the meaning of the part/paragraph (D3.8, SELS3.1). She/He asks them to discuss the meaning 
of the part/paragraph in pairs in general without knowing the meaning of each new target word and asks 
what helps them understand the meaning of the part/paragraph ( D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, LS1, LS7). Students 
discuss the meaning of the part/paragraph in pairs (D3.10, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.18) and report back to the 
class. The teacher takes notes on the board and writes what the part/paragraph is about in one word/clause/
sentence in the story (V6.2, LS1, LS5, CS2.16.1).As each part/ paragraph covers a different but related piece 
of the whole topic, they realise that each part/paragraph contains new target words about a specific part of 
the whole theme. This helps them think about what each new target word in each part/paragraph could be 
about (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, CS2.16.1). These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), 
and (8) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To find “sentence clues”/“the indirect context clues” for the target 
key (active) words in the sentences in context: The teacher helps the students deal with each target key 
word by looking around these words in the sentences for collecting clues which can help them understand 
the meaning of these unknown target words. Starting from the first unknown target (key) word, students 
are asked to look at the words around the target (key) words (D3.2, D3.6, D3.8, D3.9, D3.10, SELS3.1, LS1, 
S2.1,CS2.16.3).These clues could be linking words, adjectives, adverbs, determiners, suffixes, prefixes, 
time expressions that can help them understand the meaning of the unknown target word (but they do not 
talk about the terminology and parts of speeches, instead they talk about the meanings and functions of 
these supportive surrounding words). The teacher asks students to work in pairs to go through and list the 
“indirect clues” for each word (D3.5,D3.7, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, CS2.7, CS2.17). When they finish working in 
pairs, the teacher goes through each word with the whole class and listens to what clues they have found 
to understand the meaning of the unknown target (key) word in the sentences (SELS3.1,V4.1, LS7).This is 
evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION AND SELECTION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To practise with the target words: To practise 
with the target vocabulary that the students work on through “sentence clues/indirect context clues”, the 
teacher checks their understanding again by showing them some realia that she/he has already provided 
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, LS5,CS2.5). The teacher shows them to the students and asks them to think about what 
they are and share them with their peers and then they check the answers with the whole class (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.19). Then the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again and 
shows the corresponding pictures to the students when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
story, without stopping the video while they are watching the story (LS2, LS4). When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the realia/visual elements, etc. about the content and asks in the form of two 
options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that they already know (D3.6, LS5, CS2.7, CS3.1).
As they have studied the words through the “part/paragraph and sentences clues” in reading the text earlier, 
the students can choose the correct option when they hear the words for the related theme and they answer 
them after talking about them in pairs (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, V6.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1).In this way they can 
further practise the meaning of the target words. These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), 
(6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section1.2 Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.

===== PDF_PAGE_1057 =====
1057
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Further vocabulary practice through dialogical work: The 
teacher shows the story again, and from the beginning, whenever a target vocabulary item is mentioned 
in the story, the teacher stops the video and asks questions (or lets the students ask and answer each 
other). In this way, they are engaged in various dialogues and use the target words in these dialogues (D2.3, 
D3.8, SELS2.1,V4.1, V6.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.8) . So, they revise and practise the meanings of the target (key) 
vocabulary of the theme “life in the world and culture”. This kind of technique could be applied with different 
and enjoyable activities according to the preference of the teacher. These activities are conducted in the 
form of a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (2) and (6) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Further activities and games are played at this 
stage to reinforce the meaning of the target words by using several materials including AI-based and web 2.0 
(D2.5, SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4). They can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a 
problem with technology. These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8) and (9) in the 
section in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Consolidation of the target vocabulary: To further practise 
the target vocabulary, the teacher can prepare an activity with images/pictures of target vocabulary using 
the web 2.0 tools. She/He mixes these images/pictures for the target vocabulary items and puts them in a 
raffle programme by using a web 2.0 tools or a real box in the classroom. She/He asks the students to take 
turns to go to the white/black board and to draw a picture related to the target components of the current 
theme (D2.3, SELS1.2). Then students say several things about the items in the picture (D1.5, D2.3, V3.4, 
LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.20). The teacher asks the students in their seats to take notes while the student at the 
white/black board talks about the picture she/he has drawn and to give feedback by raising yes/no cards, or 
correcting if there are mistakes, etc., and also repeat the sentences after him/her (D3.9, D3.10, SELS2.2, 
V3.4,CS3.3).When the student at the white/black board finishes, the teacher asks her/him to put the picture 
under the right category that she/he has previously placed on the white/black board earlier. In this way, 
images/pictures that are relevant to the concepts of the target theme will be revised and consolidated once 
again through categorisation (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5). The teacher asks the students to write a definition or an 
example sentence in their personal dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling and definitions (D1.2, D1.6, D3.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V6.2,CS2.20).
Students’ learning can be checked and evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. When the vocabulary session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the process. Students 
reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the whole class (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.1, SELS1.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, CS2.15). They also give feedback to each other (D2.1, D2.4, V6.1, V9.2, 
V10.3).
ENG8.6.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  Consciousness raising- 
discovery for the use of target language structures in inductive learning process: The teacher writes 
some sentences on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to read the sentences. Then 
she/he asks them to watch the introductory digital story again to draw their attention to the use of target 
grammatical structures of the theme “life in the world and culture”  (D3.2, LS7) .The introductory digital 
story is replayed so that the students can notice the use of language with the target grammar structures 
(LS2). While watching the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the language 
with the target grammatical structures is used. When the students finish watching the introductory digital 
story again, the teacher asks the students to read and examine the example sentences carefully (D3.2, D3.6, 
LS7, CS2.2, CS2.6, CS3.2). Then she/he asks the students to work in pairs and find similar sentences with 
the target grammar structure(s) in the theme to those written by her/him on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard (SELS2.2, V 3 .4, CS2.7).  The students look at the written version of the story and find similar 
sentences to those given by the teacher as examples (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.7). The teacher then asks 

===== PDF_PAGE_1058 =====
1058
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
the students to discuss and list the common features in these sentences and what kind of things are used 
repeatedly and why they think they are used in that way (D3.1, D3.6, D3.10, SELS3.1, V3.3, V4.2, CS2.4, 
CS3.3).Students examine the teacher’s example sentences, find the similar sentences in the written version 
of the story and discuss them by making a list of similarities and repeated commonalities (D3.6, SELS3.2, 
V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.7). The teacher asks the pairs to say what they have found (D2.3, CS2.10). 
As the pairs say what they have found, the teacher writes them on the board and gives the class time to 
look at them and think about them (D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.3, CS2.10, CS2.16.1, CS3.3). Then the teacher 
hands out a piece of paper and asks the students to make a rule about what they have noticed regarding 
the target structures. Students create a rule about the use of target grammatical structures of the theme 
by working in pairs and they read it to the class and give each other feedback on the rules (D3.1, SELS2.2, 
SELS3.3, V3.3, LS1, CS2.9,CS2.16.1). The teacher shows a sentence that explains the rule correctly and asks 
the students to check if their rules are correct or the teacher gives a table in which the rule for the language 
with the target grammatical structure is incomplete. She/He asks the students to complete it by working 
in pairs (D3.1, SELS2.2, V4.2). Then they check the rule as the whole class and reflect on their experiences 
on how and how much they have learnt (D2.4, SELS1.1, SELS1.3, V6.1, V10.3, LS1, CS2.15). This process is 
applied again for the other target grammatical structures in the theme if there are any. These activities are 
evaluated as described in items (5), (8) and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS IN CONTEXT:  Students practise the use of the 
language including the target grammatical structures: The teacher asks the students to work on grammar 
tasks she/he assigns (D2.2, D2.3, V3.3, V3.4, CS2.13). These tasks could be the ones that the teacher 
provides. The teacher shows some other contents in the form of a dialogue, a short paragraph, a short story, 
etc. with sentences including the target grammar structures and asks the students to find the sentences 
with the target grammatical structures in them and asks if they understand them easily (D3.2, D3.7, D3.10, 
CS2.13, CS2.20, CS3.3). She/He facilitates some oral or written activities and exercises for the students 
to further practise the target grammatical structures in context in pairs or groups (SELS2.2). She/He also 
facilitates more fun activities and games in which students talk, act out, mime, write, etc. with pen and 
paper, digital, AI-based, etc. materials and contexts so that they can practise and consolidate the target 
grammatical structures by selecting and using them accurately, efficiently, and naturally in context ( D2.5, 
D3.2, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, V4.4, LS2, CS2.13). They engage in several dialogic activities in which they share 
information, ideas and thoughts for communicating with their classmates. They exchange information and 
ideas to others by using target grammatical content (D3.5, SELS2.2, V3.4) .When the session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the grammar discovery and 
use process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.3, V6.1, LS6,CS2.15).They also give feedback to each other (D2.1, D2.4, 
V4.2, V10.3, SELS2.2). This is evaluated as described in items (5), (8) and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG8.6.R1
PREPARING FOR READING: The teacher facilitates reading activities throughout the theme “life in the world 
and culture”  from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the theme in various forms 
and amounts as it is explained above (in the vocabulary section) in terms of how it is taught and when it 
needs to be clarified. Various reading styles such as silent reading, jigsaw reading and speed reading are 
used during the pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases. The ultimate aim of reading practice 
is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend 
and talk about the current content and related issues in a meaningful way (V3.2, LS1, CS3.3).Students are 
provided a new text(s) to practise their reading skills through the current theme. They look at the surrounding 
visual materials, the title of the text and other supportive elements to guess the topic of the new reading 

===== PDF_PAGE_1059 =====
1059
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
content and they make predictions to be checked after reading the text (D1.1, SELS3.1,V3.3, LS4, CS2.2, 
CS2.11, CS2.16.2).
ENG8.6.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING:  Students read the new reading text carefully 
to check their predictions made in the preparation session at the beginning of the lesson (SELS1.2, V3.4, 
LS1, CS2.8). Then they read the text very quickly (scanning) to check the main components and categories 
with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations that are provided by the 
teacher (V3.3,LS4, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.6).  They compare the components they have found in the text with 
those written by the teacher on the smart board/whiteboard related to the sub-themes of “different cooking 
styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in the world” (D3.6, V4.5, V5.1, LS2, LS5, CS2.7).
Students read the text very quickly to check that the main components correspond to the headings written 
by the teacher on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on the list (already provided by the 
teacher) at their desks (V3.4, LS7, CS2.8).The teacher could use different versions of the scanning activities 
as described in the “listening/watching- comprehension” section above. In this way, they can understand the 
text in general better with the help of scanning (CS2.16.1). They share the components with the whole class 
(SELS2.1) and then they discuss the accuracy of the results as a whole class  (D2.3, D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.2, 
LS1, CS2.8).
ENG8.6.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  Students read the new text silently in pairs in a jigsaw reading 
activity as they have done in the vocabulary session earlier  (D3.2, SELS2.2,V4.1). During the reading session, 
they look out for new words whose meanings they do not know (if there are any, other than the target words 
previously covered in the listening/watching-comprehension and vocabulary recognition sessions) (CS2.6). 
They work on the new words in the same way as in the vocabulary sessions. Then they deal with the semantic 
meaning conveyed in the text through display questions, then semi-closed activities and then open-ended 
activities  (V3.3, V6.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.6). They deal with the meaning by using strategies from the closed 
to the open-ended range to understand the theme “life in the world and culture”  in terms of the sub-
themes of “different cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in the world” mean 
from different perspectives to build their own understandings (D3.6, D3.8, SELS3.1, CS2.13).  The teacher 
facilitates a number of activities to help the students improve their comprehension, synthesis and evaluation 
skills after applying the knowledge they have gained from the reading process (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, CS2.3, 
CS2.17, CS2.20). After this stage, they work on activities to connect their knowledge and skills they have 
acquired about the current content with CLIL (history, maths, science, etc.) and cultural issues to be able 
to enrich their perspectives on the current theme (D3.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V4.5, V5.1,LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.13, 
CS2.14).In this way, they will have the opportunity to develop their knowledge and language competence 
through reading. They can have the opportunity to develop their cognitive, emotional, cultural, social, and 
creative skills through the process of reading (SELS3.3, V7.2, CS2.20).
ENG8.6.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING PROCESS: Students reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation 
to the whole reading-comprehension process (SELS1.3). They talk about them individually and then share 
them with the whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1,V4.2, CS2.15).After the reflection and feedback session, 
they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1, 
LS1).

===== PDF_PAGE_1060 =====
1060
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.6.W1.
PREPARATION FOR WRITING-EXPRESSION:  Students are facilitated throughout the theme with writing 
activities, from the first lesson to the last when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount of writing. At the beginning of the writing process, students recall their pre-existing 
knowledge about the current content to make a link between what they know and what they are going to 
write about (D3.2, SELS1.1, CS2.12).  This includes examining all the audio/visual sources and elements 
provided for understanding the writing task (V3.2,LS1, CS2.2).
ENG8.6.W2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL : Students listen (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the writing task they have been given (CS2.2). These are limited and short pieces of writing to see how the 
language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the written language, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “life in the world and culture”. 
Initially, they practise the language in a more controlled way, writing to repeat or simply explain what they 
have heard and seen and/ or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they 
try to understand how the language is used in the target content by examining the model/example writing 
carefully (V3.4, LS2, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the 
knowledge they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in 
relation to current content in their later free writing tasks (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, LS1).
ENG8.6.W3.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WRITTEN CONTENT: After working on a sample/model writing task, students begin 
to produce/construct similar tasks of their own. They participate in several writing activities individually, in 
pairs, in groups and as a whole class (D2.3, SELS2.2,V4.1). Their products could range from writing a word 
to a phrase, a clause to a full sentence, a group of sentences to a short paragraph, an essay to a short story. 
These writing activities will help students to produce and display meaningful written language for personal 
expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language expressions in 
this theme as in others (SELS2.1, LS1, CS2.13).
ENG8.6.W4.
PRACTISING BY PRODUCING WRITTEN CONTENT: Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
essays, diaries/journals, blogs, scripts for plays, documentaries, films, etc. to express their ideas, thoughts, 
and feelings in relation to the current topic (D1.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.20).  They take part 
in individual or collaborative projects to improve their writing skills together with social, cultural, cognitive, 
and affective aspects (D1.4, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2).Within this variety, they can find the opportunities to 
show how they can use the language that they have learnt to describe and comment on the current content 
for developing new ideas about them in different genres of writing, according to their potential needs for 
expressing themselves and communication with others (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V4.5, V5.1, LS5, CS2.14, CS3.3). 
Storification and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further writing practice 
(D2.5,LS9).
ENG8.6.W5.
PROCESS WRITING: Controlled writing of words, sentences and paragraphs turns to process writing with 
the support of the teacher’s and also peers’ feedback in the theme. This process is expanded and supported 
with additional activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 

===== PDF_PAGE_1061 =====
1061
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, etc. to practise further by 
writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme in 
fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9,CS2.13, CS2.14). All 
the content is formed as contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests, 
and language level. Students improve their writing after reviewing the feedback they receive and this spiral, 
cyclical, and ongoing work becomes a progressive path for students (D3.1, SELS1.2, V12.3, LS1, CS3.1).
ENG8.6.W6.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students communicate their ideas, thoughts 
and feelings about the sub-themes of “different cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food 
cultures in the world” through their writing tasks (V4.5, V5.1, CS3.3).They can use AI-based technologies for 
various activities, by having access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital written materials 
and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways to interact and communicate with peers and/or other 
people inside and outside school by using the language including target words, language chunks, and the 
social language expressions for the relevant theme in their writing (D3.3, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V11.1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.20).All writing activities can be evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (5), (9), (10), (11) and (12) 
in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG8.6.W7.
REFLECTING THROUGH WRITING:  The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas 
and feelings in relation to the whole writing-expression process (SELS1.3) and students talk about them 
individually and share them with the whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3,SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15). After the reflection 
and feedback session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas (SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1,LS1).
SPEAKING-EXPRESSION
Practising through speaking from controlled to communicative stages: The teacher facilitates speaking 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the last. Speaking activities support students’ 
learning and help them to produce meaningful language for personal expression and communication with 
others, by using the language including the target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions of the theme (V3.4, V4.5, LS1, LS5).
ENG8.6.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING : In the beginning, students recall their background knowledge about the 
theme through listening/watching and/or reading and then they talk about it (SELS1.1, CS2.12).  Students 
practise the target language items in a controlled way, by saying, repeating, explaining what they hear and 
see in the context, for instance, in the introductory digital story and the listening and reading sections in 
different contexts (SELS3.2). Then they can expand their language use and practice in each section by 
increasing the amount of speaking they do (D1.3, V3.4, LS1, CS2.13).
ENG8.6.S2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL:  Students listen (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the speaking task they have been given (CS2.2). These are limited and short pieces of speaking to see how 
the language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the spoken language, 
after hearing them through listening activities in the theme. Initially, they practise the language in a more 
controlled way, repeating some utterances, simply explaining what they have heard and seen, and/or 

===== PDF_PAGE_1062 =====
1062
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to understand how 
the language is used in the target content by examining the speaking model/example carefully (V3.3, V4.5, 
V5.1, LS1, CS2.4,CS2.19, CS3.2) .They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge they 
have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to the 
current theme in their later free speaking tasks (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, V3.4, LS5).
ENG8.6.S3.
PRODUCTION OF MEANINGFUL AND ACCURATE CONTENT: In the later stages of the lessons, the teacher 
prepares new contexts for the students in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading the language 
including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme “life in the world and culture”  
in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS3.2, V7.2, LS9) .These newly created contents are 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. 
They participate in such speaking activities individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class (D3.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.20).
ENG8.6.S4.
CONSTRUCTING MEANINGFUL SPOKEN CONTENT:  Students produce various spoken content and their 
products could range from producing a simple utterance including a word to a phrase, a clause to a full 
sentence, a group of sentences to a short speech, a dialogue to a spoken presentation (SELS3.3, V3.4, 
CS2.20).These speaking activities will help students to produce accurate and meaningful spoken language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme “life in the world and culture” as in others (D3.6, SELS2.1, CS2.13).
ENG8.6.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Collaborative and communicative activities 
are designed and used to revise and consolidate the whole theme “life in the world and culture”  on the sub-
themes of “different cooking styles and preferences in the world; different food cultures in the world” (V4.5, 
LS5, CS2.13, CS2.14) . Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used 
for further speaking practice throughout the theme (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.1, V4.2, LS4, LS9). Students 
are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, 
speeches, short texts, presentations, etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people 
inside and/or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language chunks, and 
social language expressions for the current theme (SELS2.3, V3.4, V7.1, V7.2, LS1, CS2.20). AI-based 
technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They can 
also produce digital materials and projects for speaking at school and at home through recordings (D3.3, 
SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V7.3, V11.1, LS2).  All these speaking activities can be evaluated as described in items 
(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), (9), (10), and (11) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.
ENG8.6.S6.
REFLECTING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students are encouraged to reflect individually or collaboratively in 
groups on their own individual learning (SELS1.3) or on their collaborative learning in pairs, groups or as a 
whole class collaboratively (D2.3, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  The activities will help and support students in these 
feedback and reflection sessions. Their feedback is shared with peers and the teacher and takes the form 
of interactive and ongoing feedback that can help their own improvement (SELS1.2, SELS2.1) and also they 
contribute to the improvement of their peers in their learning processes (V4.1, V4.3,V12.1, V12.3, LS1).

===== PDF_PAGE_1063 =====
1063
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To talk about different types of food and cooking styles in English by using target vocabulary and 
grammar.                                       
Activity 1: ExpertChef Challenge
The teacher shows pictures of different foods and cooking styles (e.g., grilling, baking, frying, steaming) and 
elicits key vocabulary. Students discuss their favourite dishes and cooking methods in pairs. Students are 
divided into small groups (3-4 per group). Each group becomes an “ExpertChef Team” to create a unique 
recipe using given ingredients. Each group writes their recipe using target grammar, e.g., “imperatives 
for instructions, sequencing words like first, then, next, and simple present tense”, e.g., “First, chop the 
vegetables. Then, fry them in olive oil”. Groups present their recipes to the class, explaining the ingredients, 
the cooking method, and why their dish is special. After all groups present their dishes, the class votes on the 
most creative or delicious-sounding dish. Each team receives feedback from peers and the teacher on their 
use of vocabulary and grammar. Each student writes a short paragraph about a dish they’d like to cook, using 
the target language, e.g., “I’d like to cook ______ because it’s _______. I would _________ and use _________”. 
Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To talk about different types of food and cooking styles in English by using target vocabulary and 
grammar.             
Activity 1: ExpertChef Challenge                       
The teacher shows pictures of different foods and cooking styles, e.g., grilling, baking, frying, and steaming, 
and elicits key vocabulary. Students talk about their favourite dishes and cooking methods in pairs by 
completing sample sentence beginnings, e.g., “My favourite dish is ____________” or “I really like __________”. 
Students are divided into small groups (3-4 per group). Each group becomes an “ExpertChef Team” to 
create a unique recipe using given ingredients. Each group writes their recipe using target grammar, e.g., 
“imperatives for instructions, sequencing words like first, then, next, and simple present tense”, e.g., “First, 
chop the vegetables. Then, fry them in olive oil”, by completing sentence beginnings to create the paragraph.  
Groups present their recipes to the class, explaining the ingredients, the cooking method, and why their dish 
is special. The students check their notes if needed. After all groups present their dishes, the class votes 
on the most creative or delicious-sounding dish. Each team receives feedback from peers and the teacher 
on their use of vocabulary and grammar. Each student writes a short paragraph about a dish they’d like to 
cook, using the target language, e.g., “I’d like to cook ______ because it’s _______. I would _________ and use 
_________”. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_1064 =====
1064
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 7: LIFE IN NATURE & GLOBAL PROBLEMS
Sub-themes: Natural disasters and their damage on 
animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage 
on people’s lives
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in nature and global problems” and 
covers the sub-themes of “natural disasters and their damage on animals and 
nature; natural disasters and their damage on people’s lives”. These components 
(sub-themes) are integrated into the learning process through the contextualised 
use of target vocabulary, grammatical structures, phonological features, and 
social language expressions. The learning and teaching activities are designed 
to be meaningful, collaborative, and communicative, and are tailored to align 
with the learners’ developmental level, interests, needs, and preferences. The 
ultimate aim of this theme is to equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and 
experiences needed to effectively use English in their daily lives, both within and 
beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 14 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.4. Self-Efficacy, D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.1. Empathy, 
D2.2. Responsibility, D2.3. Assertiveness, D2.4. Trust, D2.5. Playfulness,  D3.1. 
Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.4. Seeking the Truth, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning, 
D3.9. Doubting, D3.10. Critical Perspective
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill   
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V20. Benevolence

===== PDF_PAGE_1065 =====
1065
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS8. Sustainability 
Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Atatürk’s Principles and History of Revolution, Physical Education 
and Sports, Visual Arts, Music, Counselling and Career Planning, Technology and 
Design
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering 
Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, 
CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. 
Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation 
Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.18. Argumentation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing 
Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.2. Problem 
Solving Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_1066 =====
1066
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 8 is structured based on inductive approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.8.7.L1.  Students can prepare and get ready for listening (to)/watching about the current content on 
“life in nature and global problems with natural disasters and their damage on animals and 
nature; natural disasters and their damage on people’s lives”.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience about the current theme and 
content to recall their background knowledge by investigating it carefully.
b) Students identify significant and necessary relationships and connections between their pre-
existing knowledge, their past experience and the clues to the current content by responding 
to meaningful questions about it (without speaking Turkish or using a translation).
c) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by using their pre-existing 
knowledge and past experience of the content.
d) Students make rational predictions about the current content by looking at the supplementary 
visual elements provided. 
ENG.8.7.L2.  Students can bring together the information in the current content on “life in nature and global 
problems with natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters 
and their damage on people’s lives”.
a) Students identify the main topic of the current content in general by listening (to)/watching it 
as a whole in its context. 
b) Students recognise the significant details and basic components of the current content within 
the whole by listening (to) and watching the whole content carefully to notice them.
ENG.8.7.L3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “life in nature 
and global problems with natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural 
disasters and their damage on people’s lives”.
a) Students check their initial predictions about the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between their self-predictions and the clues provided as visuals surrounding 
the content.
b) Students make significant and necessary classifications in the current content that affect the 
meaning of the generally perceived content.
c) Students make significant and necessary comparisons in the generally perceived current 
content to highlight differences between two or more different things by using visuals, ensuring 
clarity and meaning.
d) Students recognise significant branching, linear or spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content.
e) Students make essential inferences and deductions to understand the meaning of the 
generally perceived current content better.
f) Students strongly recognise the holistic meaning formed by the components, comparisons, 
classifications, and details related to the current content.
g) Students construct a detailed understanding of the meaning of the current content through 
prior classifications, comparisons, and inferences/deductions.
h) Students position, internalise and personalise current content in an individualised, age-
appropriate and level-appropriate way.

===== PDF_PAGE_1067 =====
1067
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.8.7.L4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related 
to the listening (to)/watching process about the current content on “life in nature and global 
problems with natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters 
and their damage on people’s lives” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/
or with others.
a) Students individually convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings 
that are critically reviewed in relation to the current listening (to)/watching contents and the 
process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current listening (to)/watching content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce new audio/visual products individually by revising their personal work after 
participating in reflective activities related to the listening (to)/watching process of the current 
content.
ENG.8.7.P1.  Students can select and use target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases, clauses, and sentences in utterances authentically, 
naturally, and accurately in the current content about “life in nature and global problems with 
natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage 
on people’s lives” to develop holistic and conscious pronunciation skills after recognising them 
in context. 
a) Students recognise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases and sentences in utterances within the current content by 
listening (to)/ watching it, first as a whole and then with pauses.
b) Students repeat utterances, including target sentences, clauses, phrases, and words with 
target theme-specific sounds by considering phonological aspects such as pronunciation and 
intonation accurately and naturally in the content several times as a whole class and then in 
groups and individually.
c) Students talk about the current content by taking part in small group conversations by paying 
attention to select and use accurate phonological aspects such as pronunciation, intonation, 
stress, and other features as they are understood.
d) Students reflect personally on their pronunciation and other target phonological aspects such 
as intonation after recording and listening to group conversations about the target content.
e) Students evaluate feedback from others and their personal feedback and reflection by 
listening to or watching the audio/visual content again to check for accuracy.
f) Students utilise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of utterances including target sounds of the current content, appropriately, effectively, 
accurately, naturally, automatically, and consciously when communicating with others in 
different contexts.
ENG.8.7.R1.  Students can prepare for reading the content on “life in nature and global problems with 
natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage 
on people’s lives” efficiently and effectively.
a) Students recall and activate significant pre-existing knowledge and past experiences that can 
be related to the current theme and content through careful exploration. 
b) Students recognise significant relationships between pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to current content.
c) Students make strong preliminary predictions about the current content based on explored 
and recognised relationships.

===== PDF_PAGE_1068 =====
1068
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring and examining the 
audio-visual clues in relation to it.
ENG.8.7.R2.  Students can bring information together about the current content on “life in nature and global 
problems with natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters 
and their damage on people’s lives” through skimming, scanning and detailed reading.
a) Students skim the current content by looking very quickly and carefully at the surrounding 
visual materials to identify its general focus.
b)  Students scan the current content by reading it silently and quickly to find key and major 
components.
c) Students read the current content again silently and carefully to examine any significant 
semantic and structural details.
d) Students examine the semantic details in the content carefully to check the accuracy of their 
initial predictions.
ENG.8.7.R3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “life in nature 
and global problems with natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural 
disasters and their damage on people’s lives”.
a) Students classify significant and necessary elements of the current content in a meaningful 
way.
b) Students compare significant and key elements of the current content with each other or with 
similar ones in a meaningful way.
c) Students recognise significant and basic spiral, causal, and logical relationships in the current 
content through careful examination and analysis.
d) Students make meaningful inferences from information in the current content by examining 
it critically.
e) Students internalise their meaningful inferences from information in the current content in an 
individualised way appropriate to their age and language level.
ENG.8.7.R4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related 
to the reading process about the current content on “life in nature and global problems with 
natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage 
on people’s lives” in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content 
and process with others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
ENG.8.7.V1.  Students can select and use target vocabulary efficiently, effectively, and accurately, based 
on the current content about “life in nature and global problems with natural disasters and 
their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage on people’s lives” after 
recognising them in context and developing their conscious and inductive vocabulary learning 
skills.
a) Students make predictions about the main topic of the current content by identifying “general 
contextual clues” from the visual, audio, and written preparation materials provided during the 
“listening/watching for gist” and/or reading for “skimming” sessions.

===== PDF_PAGE_1069 =====
1069
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students check the accuracy of the predictions related to the “general contextual clue” by 
listening to, watching, and/or reading the audio, visual, and/or written content in context.
c) Students search the target audio/visual, and/or written content by scanning to find key 
components of the theme.
d) Students listen/watch the content carefully and/or read it silently to identify and underline/
circle target unknown words.
e) Students separate target (key-active) words from the other (non-key-passive) words in the 
target content.
f) Students examine relevant target words, phrases, and expressions in the current content to 
understand how and where they are used.
g) Students determine paragraph context clues to identify the topics of the parts/paragraphs 
containing unknown target words.
h) Students discuss the meaning of the target words by finding indirect sentence context clues in 
the assigned sentences of the parts/paragraphs of the content.
i) Students determine the correct meanings of the target words in the current content in pairs 
or groups by comparing the meanings/definitions proposed.
j) Students confirm the accuracy of the meanings/definitions of the target words in the current 
content by consulting with the teacher, the class and/or by using printed or digital dictionaries.
k) Students make use of the target words of the current theme in a range of semantically 
associated contextual activities and tasks accurately, naturally, authentically, and 
appropriately.
l) Students make use of the target words of the current theme accurately, naturally, appropriately 
and effectively through careful selection when communicating with others.
ENG.8.7.G1.  Students can select and use target grammatical language items efficiently, effectively, and 
accurately, based on the current content about “life in nature and global problems with natural 
disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage on 
people’s lives”, after recognising them in context and developing their conscious and inductive 
grammaring skills through consciousness-raising and discovery.
a) Students listen to, watch, and/or read the audio, visual, and written current content presented 
in context that introduces the general use of the target language structures in the current 
theme.
b) Students examine example sentences provided by the teacher or instructional materials 
including target grammatical items to see how the target grammatical structure(s) of the 
target theme is/are used to construct a meaning or contribute to meaning.
c) Students analyse current audio, visual, and/or written content presented in context to identify 
sentences similar to those provided as examples.
d) Students find the commonalities between the sentences identified and those exemplified by 
the teacher or materials through careful comparison in pairs and/or groups.
e) Students discover the characteristics of the commonalities in the sentences in the current 
content by discussing them in pairs or groups as an awareness/consciousness-raising activity.
f) Students formulate rule(s) about the same/target grammar structure(s) of the current theme 
based on their observations and discussions in pairs or groups.
g) Students engage in contextual activities on the use of target grammatical structures 
(grammaring) of the current theme to explain and justify the grammar rule(s) they have 
discovered.
h) Students practise to consolidate their understanding of the target grammar that they 
discovered by selecting accurate and meaningful items in meaningful and contextualised 
activities.

===== PDF_PAGE_1070 =====
1070
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
i) Students produce accurate and unique verbal or written content by using target grammar 
consciously and in a natural way, without thinking about the rules.
j) Students produce new spoken/written content by using the target grammatical structures 
efficiently, authentically, automatically, and naturally in context when communicating with 
others without thinking about rules.
ENG.8.7.W1.  Students can prepare for writing efficiently and accurately based on the current content 
about “life in nature and global problems with natural disasters and their damage on animals 
and nature; natural disasters and their damage on people’s lives”.
a) Students relate pre-existing knowledge and experiences from initial listening, watching, and 
reading processes to current content by examining and activating them.
b) Students understand what the current writing task requires in terms of content and purpose in 
relation to the current content accurately by applying pre-existing knowledge and experiences, 
following guided instructions.
ENG.8.7.W2.  Students can analyse and understand a provided model to guide them in producing similar 
writing tasks related to the content on “life in nature and global problems with natural 
disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage on 
people’s lives”.
a) Students grasp the significant and basic components of the content in the model/sample 
provided for the assigned writing task, including word selection and use, grammar selection 
and use, and other details such as type, style, and meaning as required.
ENG.8.7.W3.  Students can construct new written content on “life in nature and global problems with 
natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage 
on people’s lives” based on their understanding of the model(s) provided.
a) Students share their ideas and thoughts by brainstorming through collaborative discussion to 
generate ideas for the new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current 
theme.
b) Students plan how the knowledge and ideas generated during the brainstorming session can 
be applied to their new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current theme.
c) Students conduct preliminary research relevant to the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) 
writing task on the current content, considering the type of writing, age appropriateness, and 
language level.
d) Students produce a well-organised and detailed draft relevant to the (prepared and/or 
unprepared) type of writing and appropriate for the age and language level.
e) Students organise and develop contextual materials relevant to the type of the assigned task 
(prepared and/or unprepared) and appropriate to age and language level.
f) Students modify the content they produce for the assigned writing task in a coherent and 
meaningful way, consistent with the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) type of writing, 
and appropriate to the age and language level.
ENG.8.7.W4.  Students can practise producing written content based on the current theme “life in nature 
and global problems with natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural 
disasters and their damage on people’s lives”.
a) Students present relevant supportive materials appropriate to the assigned (prepared and/
or unprepared) writing task, considering the type of writing and appropriate to the age and 
language level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and strategies for the assigned (prepared 
and/or unprepared) writing task, considering its writing type and appropriate to their age and 
language level.

===== PDF_PAGE_1071 =====
1071
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
c) Students use target words and grammatical language structures accurately and appropriately 
in their writing tasks, by selecting necessary and appropriate ones in line with the assigned 
type of writing and appropriate to the age and language level.
d) Students express their messages about the current content clearly to the reader in the 
assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task.
ENG.8.7.W5.  Students can engage in the process of writing related to the content on “life in nature and 
global problems with natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural 
disasters and their damage on people’s lives”.
a) Students review the feedback from the teacher and/or peers critically on their prepared and/
or unprepared writing task(s).
b) Students revise to reorganise the written content of their prepared and/or unprepared task 
based on the feedback received from the teacher and/or peers.
c) Students refine and develop their written content produced for their prepared/unprepared 
writing task through the iterative feedback process.
ENG.8.7.W6.  Students can reconstruct their writing about the current theme on “life in nature and global 
problems with natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters 
and their damage on people’s lives” to communicate effectively about it.
a) Students adapt and use individually internalised information in current or similar content by 
selecting and reorganising it meaningfully in written form as necessary when communicating 
with other people in different contexts.
b) Students exchange information and ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge and content with others.
ENG.8.7.W7.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the writing 
process about the current content on “life in nature and global problems with natural disasters 
and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage on people’s lives” 
in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings they review 
critically in relation to their current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current writing-expression content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce their new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current writing-expression content and process.
ENG.8.7.S1.  Students can prepare themselves to speak meaningfully, fluently, and efficiently about the 
current content on “life in nature and global problems with natural disasters and their damage 
on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage on people’s lives”.
a) Students relate current content by analysing pre-existing knowledge and experiences from 
earlier listening, watching, and reading sessions to associate them with the current content.
ENG.8.7.S2.  Students can analyse and understand the model content related to “life in nature and global 
problems with natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters 
and their damage on people’s lives” to support the production of spoken language.
a) Students grasp what the provided model/example is about with the help of audio, visual, and/
or written elements after listening, watching, and/or reading the current content.
ENG.8.7.S3.  Students can produce meaningful and accurate spoken content related to the current theme 
on “life in nature and global problems with natural disasters and their damage on animals and 
nature; natural disasters and their damage on people’s lives”.

===== PDF_PAGE_1072 =====
1072
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students recognise which form and type of spoken content is expected and assigned based on 
the model/example about the current theme for both prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations through careful examination.
b) Students conduct preliminary research on the expected and assigned content to be produced 
for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students develop a draft outline in accordance with the assigned prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations as presented in the model/example, appropriate to the age and language 
level based on the current theme.
d) Students organise supplementary audio-visual materials in accordance with the assigned 
task as presented in the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations 
and appropriate to their age and language level. 
e) Students organise information related to the current content to be presented, appropriate to 
the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
f) Students critically review their prepared presentation content for accuracy, coherence, and 
appropriateness to audience and context in prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.8.7.S4.  Students can construct meaningful spoken content about “life in nature and global problems 
with natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their 
damage on people’s lives” through efficient and meaningful practice.
a) Students make spoken content clear and understandable to listeners by selecting and using 
style and form appropriate to age and language level in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
b) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using materials appropriate to the 
context, age, language level, style, and type of discourse, similar to those presented in the 
model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using target vocabulary and language 
structures similar and/or appropriate to those presented in the model/example considering 
their age, language level, context, style, and type of discourse for prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations.
d) Students convey relevant explicit, implicit, and/or complex messages related to the current 
content clearly in context to the listeners by using appropriate material and body language in 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
e) Students convey their messages about the current content clearly to the listeners by 
incorporating all the necessary semantic elements in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
ENG.8.7.S5.  Students can reconstruct the information about “life in nature and global problems with 
natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage 
on people’s lives” when communicating with others.
a) Students use the same or similar information presented in the current content in verbal or 
written forms in different contexts by reorganising it meaningfully, accurately, effectively, 
efficiently, functionally, and individually as required.
b) Students engage in verbal and/or written communication by sharing the reconstructed 
meaningful information about the current content with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_1073 =====
1073
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG.8.7.S6.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the speaking 
process about the current content on “life in nature and global problems with natural disasters 
and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage on people’s lives” 
in relation to themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students reveal their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they review critically 
in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
critically review in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process with 
others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_1074 =====
1074
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
THEME 7: LIFE IN NATURE & GLOBAL PROBLEMS
Sub-themes: natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage 
on people’s lives
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature: A disaster, an earthquake, a flood, 
a twister/storm (tornado-AmE.), a forest fire (wildfire-AmE.), a volcano, a tsunami, a landslide, a cyclone/
storm (hurricane-AmE.), drought.
Verbs: To shake, to affect, to destroy, to harm, to burn, to disappear, to collapse, to damage, to rescue.
Adverbs: Immediately, certainly.
Vocabulary for natural disasters and their damage on people’s lives: A charity, a factor, a solution, injury, 
death, fear, damage.
Verbs: To avoid, to provide, to injure, to survive, to support, to cause, to prevent.
Adjectives: Safe, homeless, destructive.
Adverbs: Badly, suddenly.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Conditional 1: (If we provide immediate support to homeless people, they will certainly survive the disaster).
-Wish clauses: (I wish the earthquake hadn’t destroyed so many homes and injured so many people).
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of conditional 1: Expressing possible future events or actions and their results based on specific 
conditions.
-Use of wish clauses: Expressing regrets or desires for situations to be different in the past, present, or 
future.
Target Social Language in Use:
It’s the calm before the storm!
In the wake of the flood, many animals lost their habitats! 
The flood was a wake-up call for better construction of houses!
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
q, r, s, t, u
Vowel: u: (/juː/, /ʌ/, /juː/)
Consonants: q: /kjuː/; r: /ɑː/(BrE.), /r/ (AmE.); s: (/s/, /ɛs/, /z/); t: (/tiː/, /t/)
*(Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme).

===== PDF_PAGE_1075 =====
1075
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “life in nature and global problems” and its components such as “natural 
disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage on people’s lives” is 
present in almost all languages. People who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge 
with them and transfer it to their new language learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student 
will know what “life in nature and global problems” and its components such as “natural disasters and their 
damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage on people’s lives” means but will not 
know how to say them in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. 
However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, understand, and learn the 
new information more easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts
Natural disasters, natural disasters’ damage on animals, natural disasters’ damage on nature, natural 
disasters’ damage on people’s lives.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will prepare a poster about a natural disaster of their choice, such 
as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, or wildfires. In their project, they will explain how people’s acts cause that 
natural disaster, how that natural disaster affects animals, nature, and people’s lives. They should include at 
least three specific examples, such as how floods destroy homes, how wildfires harm forests and animals, or 
how earthquakes impact cities and human life. The poster should include visuals such as pictures, drawings, 
or charts to show the damage and should use simple sentences. The assignment will be evaluated by using 
a rubric scheme, a rating scale, and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “life in nature and global problems” and its components 
such as “natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage on 
people’s lives”. As they are lower secondary school students in year 8 (eight), they can know what “life in 
nature and global problems” and its components such as “natural disasters and their damage on animals 
and nature; natural disasters and their damage on people’s lives” mean in their own language as it is known 
that almost all people who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their own 
language) with them and transfer it to their new language learning context. However, they may not know 
how to say these things in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. 
Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn 
them more easily in a foreign language, in this case English.
As they are students in year 8 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “life in 
nature and global problem” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or 
years. These grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning 
of the year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the 
current theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about the “life in nature and global problems” and its components such as “natural disasters and their 
damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage on people’s lives”. Recalling and practising 
with relevant vocabulary and grammatical items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would 
be helpful as a basis for moving on and learning the current content on the concept of “life in nature and 
global problems”. Therefore, a dialogue game can be played to revise all vocabulary and grammatical items 

===== PDF_PAGE_1076 =====
1076
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
from the previous themes in previous years by giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In 
this way, their performance can be evaluated by seeing how much they remember and how much they are 
able to understand and use the previously learnt vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the 
current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge 
and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated 
by rubrics throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students are asked to recall the concept of “life in nature and global problems” by remembering their pre-
existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links 
with the current activities in the theme in English without saying anything in Turkish and without translating 
anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English. To remind them 
of their pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, many materials 
such as “a scene from a short film, a passage from a book, a part from a personal diary (journal),  a part of a 
story, a collection of pictures, a part of an animation, a poster, an excerpt from a video etc.” related to this 
content can be shared with the class before the main teaching/learning flow begins. The materials about 
the current concept would give a general idea of the theme. Students are work on the material according to 
the instructions and try to grasp it. The teacher tries to check if they have an idea about the topic of the new 
theme with several activities. When they have finished working on them, the teacher asks them in English 
if they have understood what has been in the material. She/He asks them to write a related words that they 
already know (learnt in previous years) in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/ box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways for checking their comprehension could be tried by the teacher.
They wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the theme, the digital 
introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme “life in nature and global problems”  in the classroom, to prepare the 
students emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be 
done as an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class 
for their well-being (D1.5, V12.1, V13.4) .This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, 
listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to 
an anecdote, a very short story, watching a pantomime/online story, etc. that has no relation or connection to 
the current theme and does not require any knowledge of the current theme in English (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, 
V4.4, V7.2, V13.2, LS4). That is only for relaxation and preparation for the lesson.
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills are used in an integrated way around a central topic “life in nature and global problems”  
and the sub-themes of “natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and 
their damage on people’s lives”, allowing students to build background knowledge through receptive skills 
before moving on to productive tasks throughout the theme. They are combined in a meaningful and 
purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning outcomes of the theme. Although they are 
sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning practices, they are always used in a closely 
linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to promote language development and to 
increase communicative competence. The theme “life in nature and global problems”  is characterised by a 
balanced integration of all the skills, where students engage with input (listening/watching-comprehension 
and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-expression and writing-expression) 
with the help of their grammar, vocabulary and phonological selection and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_1077 =====
1077
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.7.L1.
PREPARATION FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students prepare to access the introduction to the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to remember what they have done during the “establishing links” 
session for recalling background knowledge about the related concept where they watched a short film 
scene prepared for that section (which is not a part of the introductory digital story of the theme) (D3.2, 
V3.4,LS1, LS2, LS4). They remember what they already know about the content to prepare themselves to 
work on guessing the topic of the current theme  (V5.2,V5.3, V9.2, V16.2, LS1, LS5).They prepare to access 
the main materials of the theme for having connections by making predictions based on the short film in the 
“establishing links” session (D3.8, V3.3, LS1, LS4).
ENG8.7. L2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER BY LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students collect “general context clues” to 
understand the whole content by looking at visual clues before listening (to)/watching. The teacher asks the 
students to look at any visual material such as pictures, posters, and realia related to the current content to 
identify the topic of the content and to answer the question “What is the whole content about?” (D3.6, V5.2, 
V5.3, V9.2, V16.2, LS1,LS4, LS5, CS2.2) .They can realise that there might be different elements related to 
this concept (D2.1, V4.5).The teacher asks them to look at the visuals quickly to make predictions about the 
topic of the whole theme by using the “listening (to)/watching for gist” strategy before listening/watching 
the main visual material of the theme, which is the introductory digital story (D3.8, V4.5, LS1, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.11).The teacher asks the students to read the title of the theme and asks them to brainstorm by thinking 
about which words they already know and whichwords come to mind in connection with the title (D3.4, LS2, 
CS2.12, CS2.16.2).She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new/target words they do not know 
at this stage of the lesson. She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity to guess the general 
topic/theme of the context by using the words they already know and that there will be time to work on the 
new words of the current content later (D1.4, V12.2).At this stage, some guessing games can be played to 
guess the main topic of the current content/theme by using the clues from the additional visuals such as 
pictures, posters, etc. related to the content, prepared and produced by the teacher, by using web 2.0 tools 
(D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, V3.4, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG8.7.L3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  Students identify and recognise the topic of the 
current theme by listening (to)/watching the introductory digital story that provides a context for the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen (to)/watch the introductory digital story to recognise the 
topic of the theme in general (This is a kind of preparation to work on the target key vocabulary in the later 
stages of the lesson(s) (D3.2, V3.4).The teacher asks the students to recall the work done with visuals (the 
scene from a short film) in the “establishing links” session about the current context shown earlier during the 
listening (to)/ watching session (D3.2, LS2).Students watch the digital introductory story and consolidate 
the identification of the target theme as a whole (CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that the 
students can hear/ see the context as a whole and understand the theme holistically (D3.1, V5.2, V5.3, V9.2, 
V16.2, LS2, LS4, LS5).
MAKING MEANING THROUGH THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE THEME BY LISTENING/W ATCHINfG:  
Students find and identify the main components of the current content by listening (to)/watching the context 
quickly through scanning. The teacher organises a scanning activity to find out the components as the basic 
and most important details of the current content through the introductory digital story to help students 
learn and know more about the current theme. She/He asks the students to listen and watch the story again 
without stopping, by scanning/looking for any relevant words or concepts that are heard in the story (D3.6, 
V3.4, LS2, LS4, LS7).The teacher hands out a sheet to the students on which there is a list of words/phrases, 

===== PDF_PAGE_1078 =====
1078
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
etc. to tick, circle or underline. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard through watching the 
story very quickly without stopping. The teacher could apply different versions of scanning activities such 
as finding important elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not 
take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, LS1, CS2.4). In this way, they will be able 
to understand the story in general through the main elements and components by eliminating the irrelevant 
ones. Students share with the whole class the words and components they have found and ticked/circled/
underlined on the list given by the teacher to them (D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.4). Then they discuss the accuracy of 
the findings as a whole class (SELS2.2, CS2.8). This is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After having watched the introductory digital 
story, the teacher places five headings on the smart board/whiteboard/blackboard which are on the target 
vocabulary list of the related theme as clues to the components of the current theme (D3.7, V5.2, V5.3, 
V9.2, V16.2, LS5). She/He places a corresponding picture next to each component and writes the name of 
each heading. She/He guides students to understand the heading of each category with the help of pictures. 
The teacher asks the students to work with the words they already know during this phase of the lesson 
(SELS1.2). Students work on these categories with the help of the scenes from the introductory digital story 
(D3.6, LS2, LS4).The teacher reads the headings aloud a few times by pointing to the corresponding pictures 
on the board and the students repeat them. Then the students say the headings all together. For working 
on the sub-themes of “natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their 
damage on people’s lives” further, the teacher asks volunteers to go to the board and choose the picture 
(already provided by the teacher) to stick/pin/ drag it on the white/black board or the smart board (if the 
teacher asks) (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.2,V3.4, V20.4, LS2, LS4).  Then, they say the headings (components) 
together as a whole class. In this way, the main components of the theme“life in nature and global problems”  
are introduced to the students in English (LS5). At this stage, the meanings of the target words are not 
studied, but the categorisation of the basic components contributes to their recognition of the concept 
in general. The teacher could ask the students to decide which words in the introductory digital story they 
do not know and to note them while reading the text later in the reading session (D1.2, D1.6, D3.8, SELS1.1, 
V3.4). This could be evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (6) (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. All this work helps them understand the main categories 
through classifications and also the inferences they make while listening to and watching the introductory 
digital story and/or examining the picture related to the content. In this way, they recognise and comprehend 
the main concept as a whole through categorisation, comparison, and inference (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5, V3.3, 
LS2,LS4, LS7).
 
ENG8.7.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS: Students check the accuracy of their prior guesses, 
reflect on their ideas and feelings about the listening/watching session, and give feedback to each other. 
After the students listen (to)/watch the introductory digital story to find the main components of the theme, 
the teacher asks them whether their guesses they made during the “establishing links” session, looking at 
visuals session, and their first listening (to)/watching session have been correct (D3.8,V4.2, V4.3, LS2, LS4). 
As they have already seen a scene from a short film created about the concept of the current theme, during 
the “establishing links” session earlier, and looked at some supplementary visuals (pictures, the title of the 
theme) and also they saw the picture related to the introductory digital story they can easily answer what the 
current theme is about and that their guesses were correct (D3.4, V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8).The teacher 
asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole listening (to)/
watching process and students talk about them individually (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole class 
(D2.3, SELS.2.1, V4.2). After the reflection and feedback session, they talk again about the components of 
the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their ideas (SELS2.2, V4.2, V10.3).

===== PDF_PAGE_1079 =====
1079
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.7.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Students recognise the pronunciation and other phonological 
aspects of target utterances, including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen (to)/watch an extract from the introductory digital story as 
the main context for noticing the target phonological elements (LS1, LS2, LS4) . She/He asks them to pay 
attention to the target pronunciation and/or other phonological aspects in the current content. The teacher 
asks them to notice how the target phonological aspects are used in context. Starting with the extract from 
the digital story, students go on with other contextual examples and activities to hear and understand the 
use of target elements in context (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION (AND OTHER PHONOLOGICAL ASPECTS) : Students 
select and use accurate, natural, and authentic target pronunciation and other phonological aspects of the 
target utterances including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme “life in 
nature and global problems”. After recognition activities, students repeat the target utterances including 
sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme aloud a few times as a whole class 
with accurate and natural pronunciation and other phonological aspects after listening (to)/watching the 
recordings that the teacher has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes or some other AI-
based technologies (D3.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2). To help the students pronounce the target utterances including 
sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds accurately, the teacher could offer variations with some 
techniques such as showing the target utterance to the students and they say it or letting them listen to 
the recording, then turning off the recording randomly and students say the utterances they hear from the 
recording (D3.2, D3.7, D2.3). Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as shadow reading, bingo, 
odd one out, pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound exercises by getting help 
from AI technologies (D2.5,SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2, LS4).Along with the target utterances, the target 
sounds such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are also practised in the same ways. This 
is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) as described in the section1.2.Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7).
FURTHER PRACTICE OF THE TARGET PRONUNCIATION : Students practise pronunciation with further 
activities for practice, consolidation, feedback and reflection. The teacher could use tape recording and 
feedback techniques. Students read aloud and record a text with the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the  current  theme   provided  by  the  teacher, at home (D1.2, D1.6, 
D2.3, SELS3.1, V4.1,V5.1, LS2, LS5) . They bring their recording(s) to school. First, they listen to the correct 
pronunciation of the text,provided by the teacher, in class. Then they listen to the recordings of individual 
students. During or after listening to the texts recorded by the students at home, the students give self-
feedback or peer feedback on the pronunciation of the words in the recordings (D2.4, D3.6, SELS1.3, 
SELS2.2, V4.1, V12.1, V14.1, LS1,LS5) . If available, a different version of the recording technique could be 
applied in the class. The teacher asks the students to discuss, say/talk about something, which they already 
know, related to the theme. Groups take turns to talk and the rest of the class listens (D2.3, D2.4, SELS2.2). 
During this session, the teacher records their discussions. After each group’s performance, the class listens 
to the recording for pronunciation and everyone gives feedback on it, including the individual students who 
have spoken during the discussion (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS1). The teacher can get 
help from AI-based technologies for these activities if available. Students’ performances are evaluated as 
explained in items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
pronunciation process and students talk about them individually (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole 
class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS2,CS2.15) . After the reflection and feedback 
session, they talk again about the components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their 
ideas (SELS1.2, V3.3, V6.2,V10.3, LS1, LS2).

===== PDF_PAGE_1080 =====
1080
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.7.V1
PREPARATION FOR THE WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To scan for finding the main components 
of the theme “life in nature and global problems”,  the teacher asks the students to listen to and watch the 
introductory digital story to remember the topic of content mentioned in the previous listening/watching 
sessions. The teacher also asks them to check their predictions made in the first listening/watching session 
at the beginning of the lessons on the current theme once more again (D3.8, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, 
LS7). Then the teacher asks the students to read the relevant parts of the written version of the introductory 
digital story provided by the teacher by scanning (reading very quickly) to check the main components and 
categories with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations with the 
headings that the teacher has previously written on the smart board/white board/blackboard in relation to 
the main components of the theme “life in nature and global problems”  (D3.7, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, 
LS4, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.8). Students read the written extract from the story very quickly to check the main 
components corresponding to the headings that the teacher has written on the board and then they tick/
circle/underline them on the list (already provided by the teacher) at their seats (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4).The teacher 
could apply different versions of scanning activities such as finding important components, categories, and 
elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not take place in the story, 
etc. whenever she/he likes (LS1, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.8) .In this way, they can understand the story in general 
better with the help of reading this time after the listening/watching sessions held earlier through the main 
elements and components by eliminating the irrelevant ones  (D3.2,D3.6, D3.7, V3.4, LS1, LS2, CS2.16.1).
Students share with the whole class the components they have found and ticked/circled/underlined on the 
list given by the teacher to them (D2.3, SELS2.1). Then they discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole 
class (D2.4,D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, V16.3, LS1, CS2.8).
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  To read for the details for finding 
the new target vocabulary the teacher asks the students to read the written version of the introductory 
digital story (or another written text for working on the target vocabulary) in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity 
(D3.2, SELS2.2). One peer reads the first half of the story/text and the second peer reads the other half 
silently in a given time (V3.4, V4.1, V9.2, LS1, CS2.6).The teacher asks them to look out for new words whose 
meanings they do not know during this silent and detailed reading and asks them to look out for new (target) 
words they have previously noted during the listening/watching sessions (D1.2, D1.6, D3.6, D3.8, V3.3, V16.1, 
LS7).They are then asked to share these words with their peers without discussing their meanings in the 
text (D2.4, D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2,V6.2). The teacher starts working on the new (target) words here. In this 
way, they have a detailed reading, understand the story better, and find the new (target) words that they do 
not know to work on.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To separate key (active) and non-key (passive) target vocabulary 
in context: To check whether the students know any of the target key vocabulary about the content, the 
teacher asks them to say the new words whose meaning they do not know and which they have noticed 
and noted during their silent jigsaw reading session and the students do that (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, D3.2, D3.8, 
V3.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). When they say the words, the teacher writes them on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard by putting them on two lists. She/He writes the key (active) target words on one list and the 
non-key (passive) target words on the other list (that she/he has already decided on earlier when planning 
the lesson). She/He quickly covers the non-key words with examples, pictures, question-answers, however, 
spends more time on the key target words as described below (D3.2, D3.6, V1.2,V3.4, LS2, LS4).
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY:  To find “part/paragraph context clues” in the parts/paragraphs 
of the story (context): The teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again, paying 
attention to which part of the story the unknown words that they do not know are in the utterances (D3.2, 
D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4). He wants to introduce the meanings of the target key (active) vocabulary 
related to the theme that the students do not know part by part. Then she/he asks them to read the first 

===== PDF_PAGE_1081 =====
1081
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
part/paragraph in the written version of the story (or similar text) where the unknown words (active key 
target vocabulary) appear (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS5, LS7, CS2.8).Then she/he asks them whether they 
understand the meaning of the part/paragraph (D3.8, SELS3.1). She/He asks them to discuss the meaning of 
the part/paragraph in pairs in general without knowing the meaning of each new target word and asks what 
helps them understand the meaning of the part/paragraph  (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, LS1, LS7).Students discuss 
the meaning of the part/paragraph in pairs (D3.10, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.18) and report back to the class. The 
teacher takes notes on the board and writes what the part/paragraph is about in one word/clause/sentence 
in the story (V6.2, LS1, LS5, CS2.16.1) .As each part/ paragraph covers a different but related piece of the 
whole topic, they realise that each part/paragraph contains new target words about a specific part of the 
whole theme. This helps them think about what each new target word in each part/paragraph could be about 
(D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, CS2.16.1). These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), and (8) 
in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To find “sentence clues”/“the indirect context clues” for the target 
key (active) words in the sentences in context: The teacher helps the students deal with each target key 
word by looking around these words in the sentences for collecting clues which can help them understand 
the meaning of these unknown target words. Starting from the first unknown target (key) word, students 
are asked to look at the words around the target (key) words (D3.2, D3.6, D3.8, D3.9, D3.10, SELS3.1, LS1, 
S2.1,CS2.16.3). These clues could be linking words, adjectives, adverbs, determiners, suffixes, prefixes, 
time expressions that can help them understand the meaning of the unknown target word (but they do not 
talk about the terminology and parts of speeches, instead they talk about the meanings and functions of 
these supportive surrounding words). The teacher asks students to work in pairs to go through and list the 
“indirect clues” for each word (D3.5,D3.7, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, CS2.7, CS2.17). When they finish working in 
pairs, the teacher goes through each word with the whole class and listens to what clues they have found 
to understand the meaning of the unknown target (key) word in the sentences (SELS3.1,V4.1, LS7). This is 
evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION AND SELECTION OF TARGET VOCABULARY : To practise with the target words: To practise 
with the target vocabulary that the students work on through “sentence clues/indirect context clues”, the 
teacher checks their understanding again by showing them some realia that she/he has already provided 
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, LS5,CS2.5). The teacher shows them to the students and asks them to think about what 
they are and share them with their peers and then they check the answers with the whole class (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.19). Then the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again and 
shows the corresponding pictures to the students when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
story, without stopping the video while they are watching the story (LS2, LS4). When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the realia/visual elements, etc. about the content and asks in the form of two 
options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that they already know (D3.6, LS5, CS2.7, CS3.1).
As they have studied the words through the “part/paragraph and sentences clues” in reading the text earlier, 
the students can choose the correct option when they hear the words for the related theme and they answer 
them after talking about them in pairs (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, V6.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1).In this way they can 
further practise the meaning of the target words. These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), 
(6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section 1.2 Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Further vocabulary practice through dialogical work: The 
teacher shows the story again, and from the beginning, whenever a target vocabulary item is mentioned in 
the story, the teacher stops the video and asks questions (or lets the students ask and answer each other). 
In this way, they are engaged in various dialogues and use the target words in these dialogues (D2.3, D3.8, 
SELS2.1,V4.1, V6.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.8).So, they revise and practise the meanings of the target (key) vocabulary 
of the theme “life in nature and global problems”. This kind of technique could be applied with different and 
enjoyable activities according to the preference of the teacher. These activities are conducted in the form of 

===== PDF_PAGE_1082 =====
1082
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (2) and (6) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Further activities and games are played at this stage to 
reinforce the meaning of the target words by using several materials including AI-based and web 2.0 (D2.5, 
SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4).They can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem 
with technology. These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section 
in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Consolidation of the target vocabulary: To further practise 
the target vocabulary, the teacher can prepare an activity with images/pictures of target vocabulary using 
the web 2.0 tools. She/He mixes these images/pictures for the target vocabulary items and puts them in a 
raffle programme by using a web 2.0 tools or a real box in the classroom. She/He asks the students to take 
turns to go to the white/black board and to draw a picture related to the target components of the current 
theme (D2.3, SELS1.2). Then students say several things about the items in the picture (D1.5, D2.3, V3.4, 
LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.20). The teacher asks the students in their seats to take notes while the student at the 
white/black board talks about the picture she/he has drawn and to give feedback by raising yes/no cards, or 
correcting if there are mistakes, etc., and also repeat the sentences after him/her (D3.9, D3.10, SELS2.2, 
V3.4,CS3.3).When the student at the white/black board finishes, the teacher asks her/him to put the picture 
under the right category that she/he has previously placed on the white/black board earlier. In this way, 
images/pictures that are relevant to the concepts of the target theme will be revised and consolidated once 
again through categorisation (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5). The teacher asks the students to write a definition or an 
example sentence in their personal dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling and definitions (D1.2, D1.6, D3.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V6.2,CS2.20).
Students’ learning can be checked and evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. When the vocabulary session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the process. Students 
reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the whole class (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.1, SELS1.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  They also give feedback to each other (D2.1, D2.4, V6.1, 
V9.2, V10.3).
ENG8.7.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  Consciousness raising- 
discovery for the use of target language structures in inductive learning process: The teacher writes 
some sentences on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to read the sentences. Then 
she/he asks them to watch the introductory digital story again to draw their attention to the use of target 
grammatical structures of the theme “life in nature and global problems”  (D3.2, LS7).The introductory digital 
story is replayed so that the students can notice the use of language with the target grammar structures.  
(LS2).  While watching the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the language 
with the target grammatical structures is used. When the students finish watching the introductory digital 
story again, the teacher asks the students to read and examine the example sentences carefully (D3.2, D3.6, 
LS7, CS2.2, CS2.6, CS3.2). Then she/he asks the students to work in pairs and find similar sentences with 
the target grammar structure(s) in the theme to those written by her/him on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard (SELS2.2, V3.4, CS2.7).  The students look at the written version of the story and find similar 
sentences to those given by the teacher as examples (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.7). The teacher then asks 
the students to discuss and list the common features in these sentences and what kind of things are used 
repeatedly and why they think they are used in that way (D3.1, D3.6, D3.10, SELS3.1, V3.3, V4.2, CS2.4, 
CS3.3).Students examine the teacher’s example sentences, find the similar sentences in the written version 
of the story and discuss them by making a list of similarities and repeated commonalities (D3.6, SELS3.2, 
V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.7).The teacher asks the pairs to say what they have found (D2.3, CS2.10). 
As the pairs say what they have found, the teacher writes them on the board and gives the class time to 
look at them and think about them (D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.3, CS2.10, CS2.16.1, CS3.3). Then the teacher 

===== PDF_PAGE_1083 =====
1083
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
hands out a piece of paper and asks the students to make a rule about what they have noticed regarding 
the target structures. Students create a rule about the use of target grammatical structures of the theme 
by working in pairs and they read it to the class and give each other feedback on the rules (D3.1, SELS2.2, 
SELS3.3, V3.3, LS1, CS2.9,CS2.16.1). The teacher shows a sentence that explains the rule correctly and asks 
the students to check if their rules are correct or the teacher gives a table in which the rule for the language 
with the target grammatical structure is incomplete. She/He asks the students to complete it by working 
in pairs (D3.1, SELS2.2, V4.2). Then they check the rule as the whole class and reflect on their experiences 
on how and how much they have learnt (D2.4, SELS1.1, SELS1.3, V6.1, V10.3, LS1, CS2.15). This process is 
applied again for the other target grammatical structures in the theme if there are any. These activities are 
evaluated as described in items (5), (8) and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS IN CONTEXT:  Students practise the use of the 
language including the target grammatical structures: The teacher asks the students to work on grammar 
tasks she/he assigns (D2.2, D2.3, V3.3, V3.4, CS2.13). These tasks could be the ones that the teacher 
provides. The teacher shows some other contents in the form of a dialogue, a short paragraph, a short story, 
etc. with sentences including the target grammar structures and asks the students to find the sentences 
with the target grammatical structures in them and asks if they understand them easily (D3.2, D3.7, D3.10, 
CS2.13, CS2.20, CS3.3). She/He facilitates some oral or written activities and exercises for the students 
to further practise the target grammatical structures in context in pairs or groups (SELS2.2). She/He also 
facilitates more fun activities and games in which students talk, act out, mime, write, etc. with pen and 
paper, digital, AI-based, etc. materials and contexts so that they can practise and consolidate the target 
grammatical structures by selecting and using them accurately, efficiently, and naturally in context (D2.5, 
D3.2, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, V4.4, LS2, CS2.13). They engage in several dialogic activities in which they share 
information, ideas and thoughts for communicating with their classmates. They exchange information and 
ideas to others by using target grammatical content (D3.5, SELS2.2, V3.4) . When the session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the grammar discovery and 
use process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.3, V6.1, LS6,CS2.15). They also give feedback to each other (D2.1, D2.4, 
V4.2, V10.3, SELS2.2).This is evaluated as described in items (5), (8) and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG8.7.R1
PREPARING FOR READING: The teacher facilitates reading activities throughout the theme “life in nature and 
global problems”  from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise techniques and 
the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the theme in various 
forms and amounts as it is explained above (in the vocabulary section) in terms of how it is taught and when 
it needs to be clarified. Various reading styles such as silent reading, jigsaw reading and speed reading are 
used during the pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases. The ultimate aim of reading practice 
is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend 
and talk about the current content and related issues in a meaningful way (V3.2, LS1, CS3.3). Students are 
provided a new text(s) to practise their reading skills through the current theme. They look at the surrounding 
visual materials, the title of the text and other supportive elements to guess the topic of the new reading 
content and they make predictions to be checked after reading the text (D1.1, SELS3.1,V3.3, LS4, CS2.2, 
CS2.11, CS2.16.2).

===== PDF_PAGE_1084 =====
1084
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.7.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING:  Students read the new reading text carefully 
to check their predictions made in the preparation session at the beginning of the lesson (SELS1.2, V3.4, 
LS1, CS2.8). Then they read the text very quickly (scanning) to check the main components and categories 
with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations that are provided by the 
teacher (V3.3,LS4, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.6). They compare the components they have found in the text with those 
written by the teacher on the smart board/whiteboard related to the sub-themes of “natural disasters and 
their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage on people’s lives” (D3.6, V5.2, V5.3, 
V9.2, V16.2, LS2, LS5, LS8, CS2.7). Students read the text very quickly to check that the main components 
correspond to the headings written by the teacher on the board and then they tick/circle/underline them on 
the list (already provided by the teacher) at their desks (V3.4, LS7, CS2.8).The teacher could use different 
versions of the scanning activities as described in the “listening/watching- comprehension” section above. 
In this way, they can understand the text in general better with the help of scanning (CS2.16.1). They share 
the components with the whole class (SELS2.1) and then they discuss the accuracy of the results as a whole 
class  (D2.3, D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.2, LS1, CS2.8).
ENG8.7.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  Students read the new text silently in pairs in a jigsaw reading 
activity as they have done in the vocabulary session earlier  (D3.2, SELS2.2,V4.1).During the reading session, 
they look out for new words whose meanings they do not know (if there are any, other than the target words 
previously covered in the listening/watching-comprehension and vocabulary recognition sessions) (CS2.6). 
They work on the new words in the same way as in the vocabulary sessions. Then they deal with the semantic 
meaning conveyed in the text through display questions, then semi-closed activities and then open-ended 
activities  (V3.3, V6.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.6). They deal with the meaning by using strategies from the closed 
to the open-ended range to understand the theme “life in nature and global problems”  in terms of the sub-
themes of “natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage 
on people’s lives”mean from different perspectives to build their own understandings (D3.6, D3.8, SELS3.1, 
CS2.13). The teacher facilitates a number of activities to help the students improve their comprehension, 
synthesis and evaluation skills after applying the knowledge they have gained from the reading process 
(SELS3.2, SELS3.3, CS2.3, CS2.17, CS2.20).  After this stage, they work on activities to connect their 
knowledge and skills they have acquired about the current content with CLIL (history, maths, science, etc.) 
and cultural issues to be able to enrich their perspectives on the current theme (D3.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V5.2, 
V5.3, V9.2, V16.2, LS1,LS5, LS6, CS2.13, CS2.14) . In this way, they will have the opportunity to develop their 
knowledge and language competence through reading. They can have the opportunity to develop their 
cognitive, emotional, cultural, social, and creative skills through the process of reading (SELS3.3, V7.2, 
CS2.20).
ENG8.7.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING PROCESS: Students reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation 
to the whole reading-comprehension process (SELS1.3). They talk about them individually and then share 
them with the whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1,V4.2, CS2.15).After the reflection and feedback session, 
they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1, 
LS1).

===== PDF_PAGE_1085 =====
1085
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.7.W1.
PREPARATION FOR WRITING-EXPRESSION:  Students are facilitated throughout the theme with writing 
activities, from the first lesson to the last when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount of writing. At the beginning of the writing process, students recall their pre-existing 
knowledge about the current content to make a link between what they know and what they are going to 
write about (D3.2, SELS1.1, CS2.12).  This includes examining all the audio/visual sources and elements 
provided for understanding the writing task (V3.2,LS1, CS2.2).
ENG8.7.W2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL : Students listen (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the writing task they have been given (CS2.2). These are limited and short pieces of writing to see how the 
language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the written language, 
after hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “life in nature and global 
problems”. Initially, they practise the language in a more controlled way, writing to repeat or simply explain 
what they have heard and seen and/ or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At 
this stage, they try to understand how the language is used in the target content by examining the model/
example writing carefully (V3.4, LS2, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they 
can convey the knowledge they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they 
have developed in relation to current content in their later free writing tasks (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, LS1).
ENG8.7.W3.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WRITTEN CONTENT: After working on a sample/model writing task, students begin 
to produce/construct similar tasks of their own. They participate in several writing activities individually, in 
pairs, in groups and as a whole class (D2.3, SELS2.2,V4.1). Their products could range from writing a word 
to a phrase, a clause to a full sentence, a group of sentences to a short paragraph, an essay to a short story. 
These writing activities will help students to produce and display meaningful written language for personal 
expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language expressions in 
this theme as in others (SELS2.1, LS1, CS2.13).
ENG8.7.W4.
PRACTISING BY PRODUCING WRITTEN CONTENT: Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
essays, diaries/journals, blogs, scripts for plays, documentaries, films, etc. to express their ideas, thoughts, 
and feelings in relation to the current topic (D1.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.20).  They take part 
in individual or collaborative projects to improve their writing skills together with social, cultural, cognitive, 
and affective aspects (D1.4, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2).Within this variety, they can find the opportunities to 
show how they can use the language that they have learnt to describe and comment on the current content 
for developing new ideas about them in different genres of writing, according to their potential needs for 
expressing themselves and communication with others (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V5.2, V5.3, V9.2,V16.2, LS5, 
CS2.14, CS3.3) . Storification and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further 
writing practice (D2.5,LS9).
ENG8.7.W5.
PROCESS WRITING: Controlled writing of words, sentences and paragraphs turns to process writing with 
the support of the teacher’s and also peers’ feedback in the theme. This process is expanded and supported 
with additional activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 

===== PDF_PAGE_1086 =====
1086
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, etc. to practise further by 
writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme in 
fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9,CS2.13, CS2.14). All 
the content is formed as contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests, 
and language level. Students improve their writing after reviewing the feedback they receive and this spiral, 
cyclical, and ongoing work becomes a progressive path for students (D3.1, SELS1.2, V12.3, LS1, CS3.1).
ENG8.7.W6.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students communicate their ideas, thoughts 
and feelings about the sub-themes of “natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural 
disasters and their damage on people’s lives” through their writing tasks (V5.2, V5.3, V9.2, V16.2, CS3.3) .
They can use AI-based technologies for various activities, by having access to authentic materials. They 
can also produce digital written materials and projects at school and at home in a variety of ways to interact 
and communicate with peers and/or other people inside and outside school by using the language including 
target words, language chunks, and the social language expressions for the relevant theme in their writing 
(D3.3, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V11.1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.20).All writing activities can be evaluated as described 
in items (3), (4), (5), (9), (10), (11) and (12) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.
ENG8.7.W7.
REFLECTING THROUGH WRITING:  The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas 
and feelings in relation to the whole writing-expression process (SELS1.3) and students talk about them 
individually and share them with the whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3,SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15). After the reflection 
and feedback session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas (SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1,LS1).
SPEAKING-EXPRESSION
Practising through speaking from controlled to communicative stages: The teacher facilitates speaking 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the last. Speaking activities support students’ 
learning and help them to produce meaningful language for personal expression and communication with 
others, by using the language including the target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions of the theme (V3.4, V4.5, LS1, LS5).
ENG8.7.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING : In the beginning, students recall their background knowledge about the 
theme through listening/watching and/or reading and then they talk about it (SELS1.1, CS2.12).  Students 
practise the target language items in a controlled way, by saying, repeating, explaining what they hear and 
see in the context, for instance, in the introductory digital story and the listening and reading sections in 
different contexts (SELS3.2). Then they can expand their language use and practice in each section by 
increasing the amount of speaking they do (D1.3, V3.4, LS1, CS2.13).
ENG8.7.S2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL:  Students listen (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the speaking task they have been given (CS2.2). These are limited and short pieces of speaking to see how 
the language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the spoken language, 
after hearing them through listening activities in the theme. Initially, they practise the language in a more 

===== PDF_PAGE_1087 =====
1087
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
controlled way, repeating some utterances, simply explaining what they have heard and seen, and/or 
what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to understand how the 
language is used in the target content by examining the speaking model/example carefully (V3.3,V5.2, V5.3, 
V9.2, V16.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge 
they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to 
the current theme in their later free speaking tasks (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, V3.4, LS5).
ENG8.7.S3.
PRODUCTION OF MEANINGFUL AND ACCURATE CONTENT:  In the later stages of the lessons, the teacher 
prepares new contexts for the students in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading the language 
including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme “life in nature and global 
problems”  in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS3.2, V7.2, LS9) .These newly created 
contents are contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and 
language level. They participate in such speaking activities individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole 
class (D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.20).
ENG8.7.S4.
CONSTRUCTING MEANINGFUL SPOKEN CONTENT:  Students produce various spoken content and their 
products could range from producing a simple utterance including a word to a phrase, a clause to a full 
sentence, a group of sentences to a short speech, a dialogue to a spoken presentation (SELS3.3, V3.4, 
CS2.20).These speaking activities will help students to produce accurate and meaningful spoken language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme “life in nature and global problems”  as in others (D3.6, SELS2.1, CS2.13).
ENG8.7.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING: Collaborative and communicative activities are 
designed and used to revise and consolidate the whole theme “life in nature and global problems” on the sub-
themes of “natural disasters and their damage on animals and nature; natural disasters and their damage on 
people’s lives” (V4.5, LS5, CS2.13, CS2.14).Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and 
extensively used for further speaking practice throughout the theme (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.1, V4.2, LS4, 
LS9).Students are encouraged to produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such 
as dialogues, speeches, short texts, presentations, etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or 
other people inside and/or outside the school by using the language including the target words, language 
chunks, and social language expressions for the current theme (SELS2.3, V3.4, V7.1, V7.2, LS1, CS2.20).AI-
based technologies can be used for various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They 
can also produce digital materials and projects for speaking at school and at home through recordings (D3.3, 
SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V7.3, V11.1, LS2).  All these speaking activities can be evaluated as described in items 
(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), (9), (10), and (11) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English 
Curriculum.
ENG8.7.S6.
REFLECTING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students are encouraged to reflect individually or collaboratively in 
groups on their own individual learning (SELS1.3) or on their collaborative learning in pairs, groups or as a 
whole class collaboratively (D2.3, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  The activities will help and support students in these 
feedback and reflection sessions. Their feedback is shared with peers and the teacher and takes the form 
of interactive and ongoing feedback that can help their own improvement (SELS1.2, SELS2.1) and also they 
contribute to the improvement of their peers in their learning processes (V4.1, V4.3,V12.1, V12.3, LS1).

===== PDF_PAGE_1088 =====
1088
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To talk about natural disasters, their causes and impacts in English by using target vocabulary 
and grammar.
Activity 1: Survivors’ Stories
The teacher divides the class into small groups of 3-4 students. Each group represents a news team reporting 
on a natural disaster. The teacher hands each group a disaster event card with key information. Groups use 
the information on their card to create a short “live news report” about the disaster, e.g., “Example card: Type 
of disaster: Earthquake, Location: A small town in Japan, Cause: Movement of tectonic plates, Impacts: 
Buildings destroyed, people evacuated, rescue operations underway”. Their task is to create a report using 
relative clauses to describe the disaster and its impact. Groups prepare a short “live report” describing 
the disaster. Each student must contribute at least one sentence using a relative clause. The teacher 
encourages groups to make the report dynamic and include key vocabulary. All groups present their news 
report. Each group receives feedback from peers and the teacher on their use of vocabulary and grammar. 
Each student writes a short reflection on what they liked and enjoyed in today’s lesson. Students reflect on 
their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To talk about natural disasters, their causes and impacts in English by using target vocabulary 
and grammar.
Activity 1: Survivors’ Stories
The teacher divides the class into small groups of 3-4 students. Each group represents a news team 
reporting on a natural disaster. The teacher hands each group a disaster event card with key information. 
The event cards are simplified, and they support students by providing sentence starters, e.g., “The tsunami, 
which ______, caused…”. Their task is to create a report using relative clauses to describe the disaster and 
its impact. Groups prepare a short “live report” describing the disaster. Each student must contribute at 
least one sentence using a relative clause. The teacher encourages groups to make the report dynamic and 
include key vocabulary. All groups present their news report. Each group receives feedback from peers and 
the teacher on their use of vocabulary and grammar. Each student writes a short reflection on what they 
liked and enjoyed in today’s lesson. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_1089 =====
1089
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
THEME 8: LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE & FUTURE 
Sub-themes: Transport in the future; self-driving cars; 
flying vehicles in the future
This theme is centred on the concept of “life in the universe and future” and covers 
the sub-themes of “transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in 
the future”. These components (sub-themes) are integrated into the learning 
process through the contextualised use of target vocabulary, grammatical 
structures, phonological features, and social language expressions. The 
learning and teaching activities are designed to be meaningful, collaborative, 
and communicative, and are tailored to align with the learners’ developmental 
level, interests, needs, and preferences. The ultimate aim of this theme is to 
equip learners with the knowledge, skills, and experiences needed to effectively 
use English in their daily lives, both within and beyond the school environment.
CLASS HOURS 14 
FIELD SKILLS AND 
SUPPORTIVE SKILLS
FLFS1. Listening/Watching-Comprehension
FLFS2. Reading-Comprehension
FLFS3. Speaking-Expression
FLFS4. Writing-Expression
FLSS1. Grammaring: Selection and Use
FLSS2. Vocabulary: Selection and Use
FLSS3. Pronunciation: Selection and Use
CONCEPTUAL SKILLS -
DISPOSITIONS D1.1. Curiosity, D1.2. Independence, D1.3. Perseverance and Determination, 
D1.4. Self-Efficacy, D1.5. Self-Confidence, D1.6. Selectivity, D2.1. Empathy, 
D2.2. Responsibility, D2.3. Assertiveness,  D2.4. Trust, D2.5. Playfulness, D3.1. 
Reasoning, D3.2. Focus, D3.3. Creativity, D3.4. Seeking the Truth, D3.5. Open-
Mindedness, D3.6. Analyticalness, D3.7. Being Systematic, D3.8. Questioning, 
D3.9. Doubting, D3.10. Critical Perspective
INTERCURRICULAR 
COMPONENTS
Social-Emotional 
Learning Skills SELS1.1. Self-Awareness Skill, SELS1.2. Self-Regulation Skill, SELS1.3. Self-
Reflection Skill, SELS2.1. Communication Skill, SELS2.2. Cooperation Skill, 
SELS2.3. Social Awareness Skill, SELS3.1. Adaptability Skill, SELS3.2. Flexibility 
Skill, SELS3.3. Responsible Decision-Making Skill
     Values V1. Justice, V3. Diligence, V4. Friendship, V5. Sensitivity, V6. Honesty, V7. 
Aesthetics, V9. Compassion, V10. Modesty, V11. Independence, V12. Patience, 
V13. Healthy Living, V14. Respect, V16. Responsibility, V20. Benevolence
Literacy Skills LS1. Information Literacy, LS2. Digital Literacy, LS4. Visual Literacy, LS5. 
Cultural Literacy, LS6. Civic Literacy, LS7. Data Literacy, LS9. Art Literacy

===== PDF_PAGE_1090 =====
1090
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
INTERDISCIPLINARY 
RELATIONS Turkish, Maths, Atatürk’s Principles and History of Revolution, Physical Education 
and Sports, Visual Arts, Music, Counselling and Career Planning, Technology and 
Design
INTERSKILLS CS2.1. Conflict Resolution Skill, CS2.2. Observation Skill, CS2.3. Summarising 
Skill, CS2.4. Analysis Skill, CS2.5. Classification Skill, CS2.6. Information Gathering 
Skill, CS2.7. Comparison Skill, CS2.8. Inquiry Skill, CS2.9. Generalisation Skill, 
CS2.10. Inference Skill, CS2.11. Observation-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.12. 
Data-Based Prediction Skill, CS2.13. Structuring Skill, CS2.14. Interpretation 
Skill, CS2.15. Reflective Thinking Skill, CS2.16.1. Inductive Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.16.2. Deductive Reasoning Skill, CS2.16.3. Analogical Reasoning Skill, 
CS2.17. Evaluation Skill, CS2.18. Argumentation Skill, CS2.19. Logical Auditing 
Skill, CS2.20. Synthesis Skill, CS3.1. Decision-Making Skill, CS3.2. Problem 
Solving Skill, CS3.3. Critical Thinking Skill

===== PDF_PAGE_1091 =====
1091
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Year 8 is structured based on inductive approach. 
LEARNING OUTCOMES and PROCESS COMPONENTS
ENG.8.8.L1.  Students can prepare and get ready for listening (to)/watching about the current content on 
“life in the universe and future with transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in 
the future”.
a) Students activate their pre-existing knowledge and experience about the current theme and 
content to recall their background knowledge by investigating it carefully.
b) Students identify significant and necessary relationships and connections between their pre-
existing knowledge, their past experience and the clues to the current content by responding 
to meaningful questions about it (without speaking Turkish or using a translation).
c) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by using their pre-existing 
knowledge and past experience of the content.
d) Students make rational predictions about the current content by looking at the supplementary 
visual elements provided. 
ENG.8.8.L2.  Students can bring together the information in the current content on “life in the universe and 
future with transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future”.
a) Students identify the main topic of the current content in general by listening (to)/watching it 
as a whole in its context. 
b) Students recognise the significant details and basic components of the current content within 
the whole by listening (to) and watching the whole content carefully to notice them.
ENG.8.8.L3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “life in the 
universe and future with transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future”.
a) Students check their initial predictions about the current content by being aware of the 
commonalities between their self-predictions and the clues provided as visuals surrounding 
the content.
b) Students make significant and necessary classifications in the current content that affect the 
meaning of the generally perceived content.
c) Students make significant and necessary comparisons in the generally perceived current 
content to highlight differences between two or more different things by using visuals, ensuring 
clarity and meaning.
d) Students recognise significant branching, linear or spiral relationships (if any) within the 
generally perceived current content.
e) Students make essential inferences and deductions to understand the meaning of the 
generally perceived current content better.
f) Students strongly recognise the holistic meaning formed by the components, comparisons, 
classifications, and details related to the current content.
g) Students construct a detailed understanding of the meaning of the current content through 
prior classifications, comparisons, and inferences/deductions.
h) Students position, internalise and personalise current content in an individualised, age-
appropriate and level-appropriate way.
ENG.8.8.L4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related 
to the listening (to)/watching process about the current content on “life in the universe and 
future with transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” in relation to 
themselves or others, both individually and/or with others.

===== PDF_PAGE_1092 =====
1092
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students individually convey their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings 
that are critically reviewed in relation to the current listening (to)/watching contents and the 
process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current listening (to)/watching content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce new audio/visual products individually by revising their personal work after 
participating in reflective activities related to the listening (to)/watching process of the current 
content.
ENG.8.8.P1.  Students can select and use target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases, clauses, and sentences in utterances authentically, naturally, 
and accurately in the current content about “life in the universe and future with transport in 
the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” to develop holistic and conscious 
pronunciation skills after recognising them in context. 
a) Students recognise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of target sounds, words, phrases and sentences in utterances within the current content by 
listening (to)/ watching it, first as a whole and then with pauses.
b) Students repeat utterances, including target sentences, clauses, phrases, and words with 
target theme-specific sounds by considering phonological aspects such as pronunciation and 
intonation accurately and naturally in the content several times as a whole class and then in 
groups and individually.
c) Students talk about the current content by taking part in small group conversations by paying 
attention to select and use accurate phonological aspects such as pronunciation, intonation, 
stress, and other features as they are understood.
d) Students reflect personally on their pronunciation and other target phonological aspects such 
as intonation after recording and listening to group conversations about the target content.
e) Students evaluate feedback from others and their personal feedback and reflection by 
listening to or watching the audio/visual content again to check for accuracy.
f) Students utilise the target phonological aspects such as pronunciation and intonation 
of utterances including target sounds of the current content, appropriately, effectively, 
accurately, naturally, automatically, and consciously when communicating with others in 
different contexts.
ENG.8.8.R1.  Students can prepare for reading the content on “life in the universe and future with transport 
in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” efficiently and effectively.
a) Students recall and activate significant pre-existing knowledge and past experiences that can 
be related to the current theme and content through careful exploration. 
b) Students recognise significant relationships between pre-existing knowledge, past 
experiences and clues to current content.
c) Students make strong preliminary predictions about the current content based on explored 
and recognised relationships.
d) Students make detailed predictions about the current content by exploring and examining the 
audio-visual clues in relation to it.
ENG.8.8.R2.  Students can bring information together about the current content on “life in the universe 
and future with transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” through 
skimming, scanning and detailed reading.
a) Students skim the current content by looking very quickly and carefully at the surrounding 
visual materials to identify its general focus.

===== PDF_PAGE_1093 =====
1093
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b)  Students scan the current content by reading it silently and quickly to find key and major 
components.
c) Students read the current content again silently and carefully to examine any significant 
semantic and structural details.
d) Students examine the semantic details in the content carefully to check the accuracy of their 
initial predictions.
ENG.8.8.R3.  Students can make sense of and derive meaning from the current content on “life in the 
universe and future with transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future”.
a) Students classify significant and necessary elements of the current content in a meaningful 
way.
b) Students compare significant and key elements of the current content with each other or with 
similar ones in a meaningful way.
c) Students recognise significant and basic spiral, causal, and logical relationships in the current 
content through careful examination and analysis.
d) Students make meaningful inferences from information in the current content by examining 
it critically.
e) Students internalise their meaningful inferences from information in the current content in an 
individualised way appropriate to their age and language level.
ENG.8.8.R4.  Students can reflect on the information, experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related 
to the reading process about the current content on “life in the universe and future with 
transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” in relation to themselves 
or others, both individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they review critically in relation to the current reading-comprehension content 
and process with others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current reading-comprehension content and process.
ENG.8.8.V1.  Students can select and use target vocabulary efficiently, effectively, and accurately, based 
on the current content about “life in the universe and future with transport in the future; self-
driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” after recognising them in context and developing 
their conscious and inductive vocabulary learning skills.
a) Students make predictions about the main topic of the current content by identifying “general 
contextual clues” from the visual, audio, and written preparation materials provided during the 
“listening/watching for gist” and/or reading for “skimming” sessions.
b) Students check the accuracy of the predictions related to the “general contextual clue” by 
listening to, watching, and/or reading the audio, visual, and/or written content in context.
c) Students search the target audio/visual, and/or written content by scanning to find key 
components of the theme.
d) Students listen/watching the content carefully and/or read it silently to identify and underline/
circle target unknown words.
e) Students separate target (key-active) words from the other (non-key-passive) words in the 
target content.
f) Students examine relevant target words, phrases, and expressions in the current content to 
understand how and where they are used.

===== PDF_PAGE_1094 =====
1094
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
g)  Students determine paragraph context clues to identify the topics of the parts/paragraphs 
containing unknown target words.
h)  Students discuss the meaning of the target words by finding indirect sentence context clues 
in the assigned sentences of the parts/paragraphs of the content.
i)  Students determine the correct meanings of the target words in the current content in pairs 
or groups by comparing the meanings/definitions proposed.
j) Students confirm the accuracy of the meanings/definitions of the target words in  the current 
content by consulting with the teacher, the class and/or by using printed or digital dictionaries.
k)  Students make use of the target words of the current theme in a range of semantically 
associated contextual activities and tasks accurately, naturally, authentically, and 
appropriately.
l) Students make use of the target words of the current theme accurately, naturally, appropriately 
and effectively through careful selection when communicating with others.
ENG.8.8.G1.  Students can select and use target grammatical language items efficiently, effectively, and 
accurately, based on the current content about “life in the universe and future with transport 
in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future”, after recognising them in context 
and developing their conscious and inductive grammaring skills through consciousness-
raising and discovery.
a)  Students listen to, watch, and/or read the audio, visual, and written current content presented 
in context that introduces the general use of the target language structures in the current 
theme.
b) Students examine example sentences provided by the teacher or instructional materials 
including target grammatical items to see how the target grammatical structure(s) of the 
target theme is/are used to construct a meaning or contribute to meaning.
c) Students analyse current audio, visual, and/or written content presented in context to identify 
sentences similar to those provided as examples.
d) Students find the commonalities between the sentences identifies and those exemplified by 
the teacher or materials though careful comparison in pairs and/or groups.
e) Students discover the characteristics of the commonalities in the sentences in the current 
content by discussing them in pairs or groups as an awareness/consciousness-raising activity.
f) Students formulate rule(s) about the same/target ‘grammar structure(s) of the current theme 
based on their observations and discussions in pairs or groups.
g)  Students engage in contextual activities on the use of target grammatical structures 
(grammaring) of the current theme to explain and justify the grammar rule(s) they have 
discovered.
h)  Students practise to consolidate their understanding of the target grammar that they 
discovered by selecting accurate and meaningful items in meaningful and contextualised 
activities.
i) Students produce accurate and unique verbal or written content by using target grammar 
consciously and in a natural way, without thinking about the rules.
j) Students produce new spoken/written content by using the target grammatical structures 
efficiently, authentically, automatically, and naturally in context when communicating with 
others without thinking about rules.
ENG.8.8.W1.  Students can prepare for writing efficiently and accurately based on the current content 
about “life in the universe and future with transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying 
vehicles in the future”.

===== PDF_PAGE_1095 =====
1095
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a) Students relate pre-existing knowledge and experiences from initial listening, watching, and 
reading processes to current content by examining and activating them.
b) Students understand what the current writing task requires in terms of content and purpose in 
relation to the current content accurately by applying pre-existing knowledge and experiences, 
following guided instructions.
ENG.8.8.W2.  Students can analyse and understand a provided model to guide them in producing similar 
writing tasks related to the content on “life in the universe and future with transport in the 
future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future”.
a) Students grasp the significant and basic components of the content in the model/sample 
provided for the assigned writing task, including word selection and use, grammar selection 
and use, and other details such as type, style, and meaning as required.
ENG.8.8.W3.  Students can construct new written content on “life in the universe and future with transport 
in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” based on their understanding of 
the model(s) provided.
a) Students share their ideas and thoughts by brainstorming through collaborative discussion to 
generate ideas for the new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current 
theme.
b) Students plan how the knowledge and ideas generated during the brainstorming session can 
be applied to their new (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task related to the current theme.
c) Students conduct preliminary research relevant to the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) 
writing task on the current content, considering the type of writing, age appropriateness, and 
language level.
d) Students produce a well-organised and detailed draft relevant to the (prepared and/or 
unprepared) type of writing and appropriate for the age and language level.
e) Students organise and develop contextual materials relevant to the type of the assigned task 
(prepared and/or unprepared) and appropriate to age and language level.
f) Students modify the content they produce for the assigned writing task in a coherent and 
meaningful way, consistent with the assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) type of writing, 
and appropriate to the age and language level.
ENG.8.8.W4.  Students can practise producing written content based on the current theme “life in the 
universe and future with transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future”.
a) Students present relevant supportive materials appropriate to the assigned (prepared and/
or unprepared) writing task, considering the type of writing and appropriated to the age and 
language level.
b) Students use appropriate discourse forms, styles, and strategies for the assigned (prepared 
and/or unprepared) writing task, considering its writing type and appropriate to their age and 
language level.
c) Students use target words and grammatical language structures accurately and appropriately 
in their writing tasks, by selecting necessary and appropriated ones in line with the assigned 
type of writing and appropriate to the age and language level.
d) Students express their messages about the current content clearly to the reader in the 
assigned (prepared and/or unprepared) writing task.
ENG.8.8.W5.  Students can engage in the process of writing related to the content on “life in the universe 
and future with transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future”.
a) Students review the feedback from the teacher and/or peers critically on their prepared and/
or unprepared writing task(s).

===== PDF_PAGE_1096 =====
1096
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
b) Students revise to reorganise the written content of their prepared and/or unprepared task 
based on the feedback received from the teacher and/or peers.
c) Students refine and develop their written content produced for their prepared/unprepared 
writing task through the iterative feedback process.
ENG.8.8.W6.  Students can reconstruct their writing about the current theme on “life in the universe 
and future with transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” to 
communicate effectively about it.
a) Students adapt and use individually internalised information in current or similar content by 
selecting and reorganising it meaningfully in written form as necessary when communicating 
with other people in different contexts.
b) Students exchange information and ideas in written communication by sharing reconstructed 
meaningful knowledge and content with others.
ENG.8.8.W7.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the writing 
process about the current content on “life in the universe and future with transport in the 
future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” in relation to themselves or others, both 
individually and/or with others.
a) Students convey individually the knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings they review 
critically in relation to their current writing-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal verbal and written knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and 
feelings that they critically review in relation to the current writing-expression content and 
process with others.
c) Students produce their new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current writing-expression content and process.
ENG.8.8.S1.  Students can prepare themselves to speak meaningfully, fluently, and efficiently about the 
current content on “life in the universe and future with transport in the future; self-driving 
cars; flying vehicles in the future”.
a) Students relate current content by analysing pre-existing knowledge and experiences from 
earlier listening, watching, and reading sessions to associate them with the current content.
ENG.8.8.S2.  Students can analyse and understand the model content related to “life in the universe and 
future with transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” to support 
the production of spoken language.
a) Students grasp what the provided model/example is about with the help of audio, visual, and/
or written elements after listening, watching, and/or reading the current content.
ENG.8.8.S3.  Students can produce meaningful and accurate spoken content related to the current theme 
on “life in the universe and future with transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles 
in the future”.
a) Students recognise which form and type of spoken content is expected and assigned based on 
the model/example about the current theme for both prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations through careful examination.
b) Students conduct preliminary research on the expected and assigned content to be produced 
for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students develop a draft outline in accordance with the assigned prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations as presented in the model/example, appropriate to the age and language 
level based on the current theme.
d) Students organise supplementary audio-visual materials in accordance with the assigned 
task as presented in the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations 
and appropriate to their age and language level. 

===== PDF_PAGE_1097 =====
1097
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
e) Students organise information related to the current content to be presented, appropriate to 
the model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
f) Students critically review their prepared presentation content for accuracy, coherence, and 
appropriateness to audience and context in prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
ENG.8.8.S4.  Students can construct meaningful spoken content about “life in the universe and future with 
transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” through efficient and 
meaningful practice.
a) Students make spoken content clear and understandable to listeners by selecting and using 
style and form appropriate to age and language level in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
b) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using materials appropriate to the 
context, age, language level, style, and type of discourse, similar to those presented in the 
model/example for prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
c) Students present their spoken content by selecting and using target vocabulary and language 
structures similar and/or appropriate to those presented in the model/example considering 
their age, language level, context, style, and type of discourse for prepared and/or unprepared 
speaking situations.
d) Students convey relevant explicit, implicit, and/or complex messages related to the current 
content clearly in context to the listeners by using appropriate material and body language in 
prepared and/or unprepared speaking situations.
e) Students convey their messages about the current content clearly to the listeners by 
incorporating all the necessary semantic elements in prepared and/or unprepared speaking 
situations.
ENG.8.8.S5.  Students can reconstruct the information about “life in the universe and future with transport 
in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” when communicating with others.
a) Students use the same or similar information presented in the current content in verbal or 
written forms in different contexts by reorganising it meaningfully, accurately, effectively, 
efficiently, functionally, and individually as required.
b) Students engage in verbal and/or written communication by sharing the reconstructed 
meaningful information about the current content with others.
ENG.8.8.S6.  Students can reflect on their experiences, thoughts, ideas, and feelings related to the 
speaking process about the current content on “life in the universe and future with transport 
in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” in relation to themselves or others, 
both individually and/or with others.
a) Students reveal their knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they review critically 
in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process.
b) Students share their personal knowledge, experiences, thoughts, and feelings that they 
critically review in relation to the current speaking-expression content and process with 
others.
c) Students produce new verbal and written work after participating in reflective activities 
related to the current speaking-expression content and process.

===== PDF_PAGE_1098 =====
1098
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
CONTENT FRAME
LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE & FUTURE
Sub-themes: transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future
Target Vocabulary in Use (with revisional vocabulary):
Vocabulary for transport in the future: An accident, an airline, a distance, a drone, an engine, fuel/petrol 
(gas-AmE.), a passenger, power, a route, speed, a traveller (traveler-AmE.), a vehicle.
Verbs: To move, to charge.
Adjectives: Electrical, international, public (transport), efficient, powerful, noisy, advanced.
Adverbs: Loudly, quietly, instead.
Phrases: A sharing system, environmentally friendly.
Vocabulary for self-driving cars, flying vehicles in the future: An aircraft, a movement, jam, a destination, 
navigation, a battery, a wing, a sensor, air-taxi.
Verbs: To land, to take off, to prepare.
Adjectives: Electronic, alternative, high-tech, safe, reliable.
Adverbs: Differently.
Preposition: Except.
*National and Religious Days, Festivals, and Celebrations: “29 October Republic Day”, “23 April National 
Sovereignty and Children’s Day”, “19 May Commemoration of Atatürk, Youth and Sports Day”, “15 July 
Democracy and National Unity Day”, “30 August Victory Day”, “Eid al-Fitr (Eid-al-Ramadan)”, “Festival of 
Sacrifice (Eid-al-Adha)”.
*(Relevant language content and (communicative) activities related to these national and religious days, 
festivals, and celebrations will be developed and integrated across all themes and in all appropriate sections 
wherever and whenever possible.)
*Local Cultural, Social, and Moral Considerations of the Theme
In this theme, specific examples, cases, situations, events, and practices reflecting Turkish social, cultural, 
and moral customs, traditions, and heritage will be included across all sub-themes. This consideration will 
be age-and-level appropriate and selected with the Turkish learners’ social and cultural context in mind.  A 
table for this section is provided in the introduction to the whole English Language Curriculum.
Target Grammatical Structures in Use:
-“Be going to Future” Tense: (The airline is going to prepare an environmentally friendly route for international 
passengers).
-The Simple Future Tense (will): (Self-driving vehicles will move more efficiently and reduce traffic jams in 
cities).
-Question Tags for the future: (Flying cars will land quietly at their destinations, won’t they?)
Functions of the Grammatical Structures in Use:
-Use of “Be Going to Future” Tense: Expressing planned or intended actions or events in the near future.
-Use of the Simple Future Tense (will): Describing spontaneous decisions, predictions, or promises about 
the future.
-Use of Question Tags for the Future: Seeking confirmation or agreement about future actions or statements.
Target Social Language in Use:
Self-driving cars are like taking a ride to the future! 
Flying cars are here. 
The future is now! 
We’re on the fast track to the future with flying cars!

===== PDF_PAGE_1099 =====
1099
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
Target Phonological Sounds in Use:
v, w, x, y, z
Consonants: v: (/viː/, /v/); w: (/w/); x: /ɛks/, /ks/,  /gz/); y: (/waɪ/, /j/, /ɪ/, /iː/); z: /(zed/ (Br), /ziː/ (AmE.), /z/)
*(Phonetic symbols will not be taught. Only sounds will be practised through the target words in the theme).
Generalisations/Principles/Key Concepts 
Generalisations
The target concept of this theme “life in the universe and future” and its components such as “transport in 
the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” is present in almost all languages. People who start 
to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge with them and transfer it to their new language 
learning. For instance, a lower-secondary school student will know what “life in the universe and future” and 
its components such as “transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” means but 
will not know how to say them in a foreign language in another language if this has not yet been covered in 
their existing curriculum. However, this existing knowledge in their own language will help them recognise, 
understand, and learn the new information more easily in a foreign language, in this case, English.
Key Concepts: 
Transportation, future, transportation in the future, self-driving cars, flying vehicles, self-driving cars in the 
future, flying vehicles in the future.
INDICATORS FOR LEARNING (Assessment and Evaluation)
EV ALUATION FOR THE SKILLS AND THE CONTENT:
PERFORMANCE ASSIGNMENT: Students will write a creative story set in the future, imagining a day in their 
life using self-driving cars and flying vehicles. They will describe how these technologies make travel easier, 
safer, or more exciting and include details about the vehicles’ design and features. Students will also reflect 
on how this advanced transportation affects daily life and the environment. The stories will be shared in class 
or displayed on a bulletin board. The assignment will be evaluated by using a rubric scheme, a rating scale, 
and/or a marking scheme.
LEARNING-TEACHING EXPERIENCES
Basic Acceptations: Preparedness/ Readiness
This theme is based on the students’ knowledge of “life in the universe and future” and its components such 
as “transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future”. As they are lower secondary school 
students in year 8 (eight), they can know what “life in the universe and future” and its components such as 
“transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” mean in their own language as it is 
known that almost all people who start to learn a new language bring their pre-existing knowledge (in their 
own language) with them and transfer it to their new language learning context. However, they may not know 
how to say these things in a foreign language if this has not yet been covered in their existing curriculum. 
Fortunately, this existing knowledge in their own language can help them recognise, understand, and learn 
them more easily in a foreign language, in this case English.
As they are students in year 8 of lower secondary school, they can know some basic vocabulary about “life 
in the universe and future” and also some necessary structures in English from the previous themes and/or 
years. These grammar items and vocabulary are revised during the “Revision Programme” at the beginning 
of the year, and they can be used as a basis for learning the new vocabulary and grammatical items in the 
current theme, so that the new grammatical elements in the current theme can be learnt easily.
Pre-Evaluation  Process
It is expected that students’ physical, cognitive, affective, and social factors are appropriate and suitable for 
learning about the “life in the universe and future” and its components such as “transport in the future; self-
driving cars; flying vehicles in the future”. Recalling and practising with relevant vocabulary and grammatical 
items in English that they have learnt in the previous years would be helpful as a basis for moving on and 

===== PDF_PAGE_1100 =====
1100
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
learning the current content on the concept of “life in the universe and future”. Therefore, a dialogue game 
can be played to revise all vocabulary and grammatical items from the previous themes in previous years by 
giving instructions in English as a preparation practice. In this way, their performance can be evaluated by 
seeing how much they remember and how much they are able to understand and use the previously learnt 
vocabulary and chunks to build their competence in the current theme. It can be decided what to emphasise 
or practise in order to revise the previous knowledge and to facilitate the new vocabulary and chunks in the 
current theme. (Their performance can be evaluated by rubrics throughout these practices.)
Establishing Links
Students are asked to recall the concept of “life in the universe and future” by remembering their pre-
existing background knowledge about it (imaginatively through thinking) in their own language to make links 
with the current activities in the theme in English without saying anything in Turkish and without translating 
anything until they start learning the target words in the current (new) concept in English. To remind them 
of their pre-existing background knowledge they already have about the current concept, many materials 
such as “a scene from a short film, a passage from a book, a part from a personal diary (journal),  a part of a 
story, a collection of pictures, a part of an animation, a poster, an excerpt from a video etc.” related to this 
content can be shared with the class before the main teaching/learning flow begins. The materials about 
the current concept would give a general idea of the theme. Students are work on the material according to 
the instructions and try to grasp it. The teacher tries to check if they have an idea about the topic of the new 
theme with several activities. When they have finished working on them, the teacher asks them in English 
if they have understood what has been in the material. She/He asks them to write a related words that they 
already know (learnt in previous years) in English on a piece of paper and put it in the jar/ box that she/he has 
prepared. Alternative ways for checking their comprehension could be tried by the teacher.
They wait for it until they see the next visual, which is the main entry material of the theme, the digital 
introductory story, to see if their thoughts/guesses are true or not without asking any further questions.
Learning-Teaching Practices
W ARM-UP TO THE WHOLE THEME (WELL-BEING)
Before starting to work on the theme “life in the universe and future”  in the classroom, to prepare the 
students emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, and physically, a fun non-theme warm-up activity can be 
done as an icebreaker to help the students feel positive and ready for the whole learning process in class 
for their well-being (D1.5, V12.1, V13.4) .This could be an activity such as a short game, a physical activity, 
listening to/singing a song/chant/rhyme, doing a riddle, solving a puzzle, saying a tongue twister, listening to 
an anecdote, a very short story, watching a pantomime/online story, etc. that has no relation or connection to 
the current theme and does not require any knowledge of the current theme in English (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, 
V4.4, V7.2, V13.2, LS4).That is only for relaxation and preparation for the lesson.
INTEGRATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS IN THE THEME
All language skills are used in an integrated way around a central topic  “life in the universe and future” and the 
sub-themes of “transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” , allowing students to 
build background knowledge through receptive skills before moving on to productive tasks throughout the 
theme. They are combined in a meaningful and purposeful way and are integrated to support the learning 
outcomes of the theme. Although they are sequenced from receptive to productive in the teaching-learning 
practices, they are always used in a closely linked way that means each activity builds on the previous one to 
promote language development and to increase communicative competence. The theme “life in the universe 
and future”  is characterised by a balanced integration of all the skills, where students engage with input 
(listening/watching-comprehension and reading-comprehension) and respond through output (speaking-
expression and writing-expression) with the help of their grammar, vocabulary and phonological selection 
and use skills.

===== PDF_PAGE_1101 =====
1101
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.8.L1.
PREPARATION FOR LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students prepare to access the introduction to the whole theme. 
The teacher asks the students to remember what they have done during the “establishing links” session for 
recalling background knowledge about the related concept where they watched a short film scene prepared 
for that section (which is not a part of the introductory digital story of the theme) (D3.2, V3.4,LS1, LS2, LS4). 
They remember what they already know about the content to prepare themselves to work on guessing the 
topic of the current theme (V11.1, V16.2, LS1, LS5). They prepare to access the main materials of the theme 
for having connections by making predictions based on the short film in the “establishing links” session (D3.8, 
V3.3, LS1, LS4).
ENG8.8. L2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER BY LISTENING/W ATCHING: Students collect “general context clues” to 
understand the whole content by looking at visual clues before listening (to)/watching. The teacher asks the 
students to look at any visual material such as pictures, posters, and realia related to the current content to 
identify the topic of the content and to answer the question “What is the whole content about?” (D3.6, V11.1, 
V16.2, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.2). They can realise that there might be different elements related to this concept 
(D2.1, V4.5).The teacher asks them to look at the visuals quickly to make predictions about the topic of the 
whole theme by using the “listening (to)/watching for gist” strategy before listening/watching the main visual 
material of the theme, which is the introductory digital story (D3.8, V4.5, LS1, LS4, LS5, CS2.11).The teacher 
asks the students to read the title of the theme and asks them to brainstorm by thinking about which words 
they already know and whichwords come to mind in connection with the title (D3.4, LS2, CS2.12, CS2.16.2).
She/He reminds them not to ask the meanings of any new/target words they do not know at this stage of 
the lesson. She/He reminds them that this is just a guessing activity to guess the general topic/theme of the 
context by using the words they already know and that there will be time to work on the new words of the 
current content later (D1.4, V12.2).At this stage, some guessing games can be played to guess the main topic 
of the current content/theme by using the clues from the additional visuals such as pictures, posters, etc. 
related to the content, prepared and produced by the teacher, by using web 2.0 tools (D2.5, D3.3, SELS2.1, 
V3.4, LS2, LS4, CS2.12).
ENG8.8.L3
MAKING MEANING THROUGH LISTENING/W ATCHING:  Students identify and recognise the topic of the 
current theme by listening (to)/watching the introductory digital story that provides a context for the whole 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen (to)/watch the introductory digital story to recognise the 
topic of the theme in general (This is a kind of preparation to work on the target key vocabulary in the later 
stages of the lesson(s) (D3.2, V3.4).The teacher asks the students to recall the work done with visuals (the 
scene from a short film) in the “establishing links” session about the current context shown earlier during the 
listening (to)/ watching session (D3.2, LS2).Students watch the digital introductory story and consolidate 
the identification of the target theme as a whole (CS2.13) without stopping the video at any point, so that the 
students can hear/ see the context as a whole and understand the theme holistically (D3.1, V11.1,V16.2, LS2, 
LS4, LS5).
MAKING MEANING THROUGH THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE THEME BY LISTENING/W ATCHINfG:  
Students find and identify the main components of the current content by listening (to)/watching the context 
quickly through scanning. The teacher organises a scanning activity to find out the components as the basic 
and most important details of the current content through the introductory digital story to help students 
learn and know more about the current theme. She/He asks the students to listen and watch the story again 
without stopping, by scanning/looking for any relevant words or concepts that are heard in the story (D3.6, 
V3.4, LS2, LS4, LS7).The teacher hands out a sheet to the students on which there is a list of words/phrases, 

===== PDF_PAGE_1102 =====
1102
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
etc. to tick, circle or underline. Students circle or tick the ones that they have heard through watching the 
story very quickly without stopping. The teacher could apply different versions of scanning activities such 
as finding important elements on a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not 
take place in the story, etc. whenever she/he likes (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7, LS1, CS2.4). In this way, they will be able 
to understand the story in general through the main elements and components by eliminating the irrelevant 
ones. Students share with the whole class the words and components they have found and ticked/circled/
underlined on the list given by the teacher to them (D2.3, SELS2.1, V4.4).Then they discuss the accuracy of 
the findings as a whole class (SELS2.2, CS2.8). This is evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. After having watched the introductory 
digital story, the teacher places five headings on the smart board/whiteboard/blackboard which are on the 
target vocabulary list of the related theme as clues to the components of the current theme (D3.7, V11.1, 
V16.2, LS5).She/He places a corresponding picture next to each component and writes the name of each 
heading. She/He guides students to understand the heading of each category with the help of pictures. 
The teacher asks the students to work with the words they already know during this phase of the lesson 
(SELS1.2). Students work on these categories with the help of the scenes from the introductory digital story 
(D3.6, LS2, LS4).The teacher reads the headings aloud a few times by pointing to the corresponding pictures 
on the board and the students repeat them. Then the students say the headings all together. For working 
on the sub-themes of “transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” further, the 
teacher asks volunteers to go to the board and choose the picture (already provided by the teacher) to stick/
pin/ drag it on the white/black board or the smart board (if the teacher asks) (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.2,V3.4, 
V20.4, LS2, LS4). Then, they say the headings (components) together as a whole class. In this way, the main 
components of the theme “life in the universe and future” are introduced to the students in English(LS5). At 
this stage, the meanings of the target words are not studied, but the categorisation of the basic components 
contributes to their recognition of the concept in general. The teacher could ask the students to decide 
which words in the introductory digital story they do not know and to note them while reading the text later 
in the reading session (D1.2, D1.6, D3.8, SELS1.1, V3.4). This could be evaluated as described in items (1), (2), 
(3), (6) (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. All this 
work helps them understand the main categories through classifications and also the inferences they make 
while listening to and watching the introductory digital story and/or examining the picture related to the 
content. In this way, they recognise and comprehend the main concept as a whole through categorisation, 
comparison, and  inference (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5, V3.3, LS2,LS4, LS7).
 
ENG8.8.L4.
REFLECTING ON THE LISTENING/W ATCHING PROCESS: Students check the accuracy of their prior guesses, 
reflect on their ideas and feelings about the listening/watching session, and give feedback to each other. 
After the students listen (to)/watch the introductory digital story to find the main components of the theme, 
the teacher asks them whether their guesses they made during the “establishing links” session, looking at 
visuals session, and their first listening (to)/watching session have been correct (D3.8,V4.2, V4.3, LS2, LS4). 
As they have already seen a scene from a short film created about the concept of the current theme, during 
the “establishing links” session earlier, and looked at some supplementary visuals (pictures, the title of the 
theme) and also they saw the picture related to the introductory digital story they can easily answer what the 
current theme is about and that their guesses were correct (D3.4, V3.3, LS1, LS2, LS4, CS2.8).The teacher 
asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole listening (to)/
watching process and students talk about them individually (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole class 
(D2.3, SELS.2.1, V4.2). After the reflection and feedback session, they talk again about the components of 
the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their ideas (SELS2.2, V4.2, V10.3).

===== PDF_PAGE_1103 =====
1103
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.8.P1.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION: Students recognise the pronunciation and other phonological 
aspects of target utterances, including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current 
theme. The teacher asks the students to listen (to)/watch an extract from the introductory digital story as 
the main context for noticing the target phonological elements (LS1, LS2, LS4) . She/He asks them to pay 
attention to the target pronunciation and/or other phonological aspects in the current content. The teacher 
asks them to notice how the target phonological aspects are used in context. Starting with the extract from 
the digital story, students go on with other contextual examples and activities to hear and understand the 
use of target elements in context (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4).
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET PRONUNCIATION (AND OTHER PHONOLOGICAL ASPECTS) : Students 
select and use accurate, natural, and authentic target pronunciation and other phonological aspects of the 
target utterances including sentences, clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme “life in the 
universe and future”. After recognition activities, students repeat the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the current theme aloud a few times as a whole class with accurate 
and natural pronunciation and other phonological aspects after listening (to)/watching the recordings that 
the teacher has prepared beforehand using some Web 2.0 programmes or some other AI-based technologies 
(D3.2, V3.4, LS1, LS2).To help the students pronounce the target utterances including sentences, clauses, 
phrases, words, and sounds accurately, the teacher could offer variations with some techniques such as 
showing the target utterance to the students and they say it or letting them listen to the recording, then 
turning off the recording randomly and students say the utterances they hear from the recording (D3.2, 
D3.7, D2.3). Several fun pronunciation games could be played, such as shadow reading, bingo, odd one out, 
pronunciation maze, minimal pairs, rhyming games, and several sound exercises by getting help from AI 
technologies (D2.5,SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, LS1, LS2, LS4).Along with the target utterances, the target sounds 
such as vowels, consonants, and diphthongs of the theme are also practised in the same ways. This is 
evaluated as described in items (1) and (2) as described in the section1.2.Principles for the Implementation of 
the English Curriculum (D3.2, D3.6, D3.7).
FURTHER PRACTICE OF THE TARGET PRONUNCIATION : Students practise pronunciation with further 
activities for practice, consolidation, feedback and reflection. The teacher could use tape recording and 
feedback techniques. Students read aloud and record a text with the target utterances including sentences, 
clauses, phrases, words, and sounds in the  current  theme   provided  by  the  teacher, at home (D1.2, D1.6, 
D2.3, SELS3.1, V4.1,V5.1, LS2, LS5) .They bring their recording(s) to school. First, they listen to the correct 
pronunciation of the text,provided by the teacher, in class. Then they listen to the recordings of individual 
students. During or after listening to the texts recorded by the students at home, the students give self-
feedback or peer feedback on the pronunciation of the words in the recordings (D2.4, D3.6, SELS1.3, 
SELS2.2, V4.1, V12.1, V14.1, LS1,LS5) . If available, a different version of the recording technique could be 
applied in the class. The teacher asks the students to discuss, say/talk about something, which they already 
know, related to the theme. Groups take turns to talk and the rest of the class listens (D2.3, D2.4, SELS2.2). 
During this session, the teacher records their discussions. After each group’s performance, the class listens 
to the recording for pronunciation and everyone gives feedback on it, including the individual students who 
have spoken during the discussion (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS1). The teacher can get 
help from AI-based technologies for these activities if available. Students’ performances are evaluated as 
explained in items (1) and (2) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. 
The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation to the whole 
pronunciation process and students talk about them individually (SELS1.3) and share them with the whole 
class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.2, V5.1, V9.2, LS2,CS2.15) . After the reflection and feedback 
session, they talk again about the components of the theme, by correcting their mistakes or improving their 
ideas (SELS1.2, V3.3, V6.2,V10.3, LS1, LS2).

===== PDF_PAGE_1104 =====
1104
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.8.V1
PREPARATION FOR THE WORK ON THE TARGET VOCABULARY: To scan for finding the main components 
of the theme “life in the universe and future”, the teacher asks the students to listen to and watch the 
introductory digital story to remember the topic of content mentioned in the previous listening/watching 
sessions. The teacher also asks them to check their predictions made in the first listening/watching session 
at the beginning of the lessons on the current theme once more again (D3.8, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, 
LS7).Then the teacher asks the students to read the relevant parts of the written version of the introductory 
digital story provided by the teacher by scanning (reading very quickly) to check the main components 
and categories with the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations with the 
headings that the teacher has previously written on the smart board/white board/blackboard in relation to 
the main components of the theme “life in the universe and future” (D3.7, D3.2, D3.6, V3.4, LS1, LS2, LS4, LS5, 
CS2.4, CS2.8).Students read the written extract from the story very quickly to check the main components 
corresponding to the headings that the teacher has written on the board and then they tick/circle/underline 
them on the list (already provided by the teacher) at their seats (D3.2, D3.6, V3.4).The teacher could apply 
different versions of scanning activities such as finding important components, categories, and elements on 
a list and circle them, looking at a list and finding which elements do not take place in the story, etc. whenever 
she/he likes (LS1, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.8) .In this way, they can understand the story in general better with the 
help of reading this time after the listening/watching sessions held earlier through the main elements and 
components by eliminating the irrelevant ones  (D3.2,D3.6, D3.7, V3.4, LS1, LS2, CS2.16.1). Students share 
with the whole class the components they have found and ticked/circled/underlined on the list given by the 
teacher to them (D2.3, SELS2.1). Then they discuss the accuracy of the findings as a whole class (D2.4,D3.6, 
D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, V16.3, LS1, CS2.8).
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  To read for the details for finding 
the new target vocabulary the teacher asks the students to read the written version of the introductory 
digital story (or another written text for working on the target vocabulary) in pairs in a jigsaw reading activity 
(D3.2, SELS2.2). One peer reads the first half of the story/text and the second peer reads the other half 
silently in a given time (V3.4, V4.1, V9.2, LS1, CS2.6).The teacher asks them to look out for new words whose 
meanings they do not know during this silent and detailed reading and asks them to look out for new (target) 
words they have previously noted during the listening/watching sessions (D1.2, D1.6, D3.6, D3.8, V3.3, V16.1, 
LS7).They are then asked to share these words with their peers without discussing their meanings in the 
text (D2.4, D3.2, SELS2.2, V4.2,V6.2). The teacher starts working on the new (target) words here. In this 
way, they have a detailed reading, understand the story better, and find the new (target) words that they do 
not know to work on.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To separate key (active) and non-key (passive) target vocabulary 
in context: To check whether the students know any of the target key vocabulary about the content, the 
teacher asks them to say the new words whose meaning they do not know and which they have noticed 
and noted during their silent jigsaw reading session and the students do that (D1.2, D1.6, D2.4, D3.2, D3.8, 
V3.3, V6.2, LS1, LS4). When they say the words, the teacher writes them on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard by putting them on two lists. She/He writes the key (active) target words on one list and the 
non-key (passive) target words on the other list (that she/he has already decided on earlier when planning 
the lesson). She/He quickly covers the non-key words with examples, pictures, question-answers, however, 
spends more time on the key target words as described below (D3.2, D3.6, V1.2,V3.4, LS2, LS4).
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY:  To find “part/paragraph context clues” in the parts/paragraphs 
of the story (context): The teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again, paying 
attention to which part of the story the unknown words that they do not know are in the utterances (D3.2, 
D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.4, LS1, LS4). He wants to introduce the meanings of the target key (active) vocabulary 
related to the theme that the students do not know part by part. Then she/he asks them to read the first 

===== PDF_PAGE_1105 =====
1105
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
part/paragraph in the written version of the story (or similar text) where the unknown words (active key 
target vocabulary) appear (D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, V3.3, LS5, LS7, CS2.8).Then she/he asks them whether they 
understand the meaning of the part/paragraph (D3.8, SELS3.1). She/He asks them to discuss the meaning of 
the part/paragraph in pairs in general without knowing the meaning of each new target word and asks what 
helps them understand the meaning of the part/paragraph  (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, LS1, LS7).Students discuss 
the meaning of the part/paragraph in pairs (D3.10, SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.18) and report back to the class. The 
teacher takes notes on the board and writes what the part/paragraph is about in one word/clause/sentence 
in the story (V6.2, LS1, LS5, CS2.16.1) .As each part/ paragraph covers a different but related piece of the 
whole topic, they realise that each part/paragraph contains new target words about a specific part of the 
whole theme. This helps them think about what each new target word in each part/paragraph could be about 
(D3.2, D3.6, SELS3.1, CS2.16.1). These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), and (8) 
in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION OF TARGET VOCABULARY: To find “sentence clues”/“the indirect context clues” for the target 
key (active) words in the sentences in context: The teacher helps the students deal with each target key 
word by looking around these words in the sentences for collecting clues which can help them understand 
the meaning of these unknown target words. Starting from the first unknown target (key) word, students 
are asked to look at the words around the target (key) words (D3.2, D3.6, D3.8, D3.9, D3.10, SELS3.1, LS1, 
S2.1,CS2.16.3).These clues could be linking words, adjectives, adverbs, determiners, suffixes, prefixes, 
time expressions that can help them understand the meaning of the unknown target word (but they do not 
talk about the terminology and parts of speeches, instead they talk about the meanings and functions of 
these supportive surrounding words). The teacher asks students to work in pairs to go through and list the 
“indirect clues” for each word (D3.5,D3.7, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.2, CS2.7, CS2.17). When they finish working in 
pairs, the teacher goes through each word with the whole class and listens to what clues they have found 
to understand the meaning of the unknown target (key) word in the sentences (SELS3.1,V4.1, LS7).This is 
evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8), and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation 
of the English Curriculum.
RECOGNITION AND SELECTION OF TARGET VOCABULARY : To practise with the target words: To practise 
with the target vocabulary that the students work on through “sentence clues/indirect context clues”, the 
teacher checks their understanding again by showing them some realia that she/he has already provided 
(D3.2, D3.6, V3.3, LS5,CS2.5). The teacher shows them to the students and asks them to think about what 
they are and share them with their peers and then they check the answers with the whole class (D2.3, D3.6, 
SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.19). Then the teacher asks the students to watch the introductory digital story again and 
shows the corresponding pictures to the students when the corresponding vocabulary is mentioned in the 
story, without stopping the video while they are watching the story (LS2, LS4). When they have watched the 
whole story, the teacher shows the realia/visual elements, etc. about the content and asks in the form of two 
options, one of which is a word from the previous themes that they already know (D3.6, LS5, CS2.7, CS3.1).
As they have studied the words through the “part/paragraph and sentences clues” in reading the text earlier, 
the students can choose the correct option when they hear the words for the related theme and they answer 
them after talking about them in pairs (D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.1, V6.2, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS3.1).In this way they can 
further practise the meaning of the target words. These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), 
(6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section1.2 Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Further vocabulary practice through dialogical work: The 
teacher shows the story again, and from the beginning, whenever a target vocabulary item is mentioned in 
the story, the teacher stops the video and asks questions (or lets the students ask and answer each other). 
In this way, they are engaged in various dialogues and use the target words in these dialogues (D2.3, D3.8, 
SELS2.1,V4.1, V6.2, LS5, LS6, CS2.8).So, they revise and practise the meanings of the target (key) vocabulary 
of the theme “life in the universe and future”. This kind of technique could be applied with different and 
enjoyable activities according to the preference of the teacher. These activities are conducted in the form of 

===== PDF_PAGE_1106 =====
1106
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
a dialogue where their learning can be checked as described in items (2) and (6) in the section 1.2. Principles 
for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. Further activities and games are played at this stage to 
reinforce the meaning of the target words by using several materials including AI-based and web 2.0 (D2.5, 
SELS2.1, V3.4, V4.2, V4.4).They can be done with real pictures on the white/blackboard if there is a problem 
with technology. These activities are evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section 
in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET VOCABULARY: Consolidation of the target vocabulary: To further practise 
the target vocabulary, the teacher can prepare an activity with images/pictures of target vocabulary using 
the web 2.0 tools. She/He mixes these images/pictures for the target vocabulary items and puts them in a 
raffle programme by using a web 2.0 tools or a real box in the classroom. She/He asks the students to take 
turns to go to the white/black board and to draw a picture related to the target components of the current 
theme (D2.3, SELS1.2). Then students say several things about the items in the picture (D1.5, D2.3, V3.4, 
LS1, LS5, LS6, CS2.20). The teacher asks the students in their seats to take notes while the student at the 
white/black board talks about the picture she/he has drawn and to give feedback by raising yes/no cards, or 
correcting if there are mistakes, etc., and also repeat the sentences after him/her (D3.9, D3.10, SELS2.2, 
V3.4,CS3.3).When the student at the white/black board finishes, the teacher asks her/him to put the picture 
under the right category that she/he has previously placed on the white/black board earlier. In this way, 
images/pictures that are relevant to the concepts of the target theme will be revised and consolidated once 
again through categorisation (D3.6, D3.7, CS2.5). The teacher asks the students to write a definition or an 
example sentence in their personal dictionaries and then asks them to exchange their dictionaries with 
their peers and check each other’s spelling and definitions (D1.2, D1.6, D3.1, SELS2.2, V3.4, V6.2,CS2.20).
Students’ learning can be checked and evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (6), (7), (8) and (9) in the section 
1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum. When the vocabulary session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the process. Students 
reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the whole class (D1.2, 
D1.6, D2.1, SELS1.3, SELS2.1, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  They also give feedback to each other (D2.1, D2.4, V6.1, 
V9.2, V10.3).
ENG8.8.G1
RECOGNITION OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS (AS CONTENT KNOWLEDGE):  Consciousness raising- 
discovery for the use of target language structures in inductive learning process: The teacher writes 
some sentences on the smart board/blackboard/whiteboard and asks them to read the sentences. Then 
she/he asks them to watch the introductory digital story again to draw their attention to the use of target 
grammatical structures of the theme “life in the universe and future”  (D3.2, LS7).The introductory digital 
story is replayed so that the students can notice the use of language with the target grammar structures  
(LS2).  While watching the introductory digital story, the teacher stops at the scenes where the language 
with the target grammatical structures is used. When the students finish watching the introductory digital 
story again, the teacher asks the students to read and examine the example sentences carefully (D3.2, D3.6, 
LS7, CS2.2, CS2.6, CS3.2). Then she/he asks the students to work in pairs and find similar sentences with 
the target grammar structure(s) in the theme to those written by her/him on the smart board/blackboard/
whiteboard (SELS2.2, V 3 .4, CS2.7).  The students look at the written version of the story and find similar 
sentences to those given by the teacher as examples (D3.2, D3.6, CS2.4, CS2.7). The teacher then asks 
the students to discuss and list the common features in these sentences and what kind of things are used 
repeatedly and why they think they are used in that way (D3.1, D3.6, D3.10, SELS3.1, V3.3, V4.2, CS2.4, 
CS3.3).Students examine the teacher’s example sentences, find the similar sentences in the written version 
of the story and discuss them by making a list of similarities and repeated commonalities (D3.6, SELS3.2, 
V3.3, V3.4, V4.2, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.7).The teacher asks the pairs to say what they have found (D2.3, CS2.10). 
As the pairs say what they have found, the teacher writes them on the board and gives the class time to 
look at them and think about them (D3.6, D3.10, SELS2.2, V3.3, CS2.10, CS2.16.1, CS3.3). Then the teacher 

===== PDF_PAGE_1107 =====
1107
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
hands out a piece of paper and asks the students to make a rule about what they have noticed regarding 
the target structures. Students create a rule about the use of target grammatical structures of the theme 
by working in pairs and they read it to the class and give each other feedback on the rules (D3.1, SELS2.2, 
SELS3.3, V3.3, LS1, CS2.9,CS2.16.1).The teacher shows a sentence that explains the rule correctly and asks 
the students to check if their rules are correct or the teacher gives a table in which the rule for the language 
with the target grammatical structure is incomplete. She/He asks the students to complete it by working 
in pairs (D3.1, SELS2.2, V4.2).Then they check the rule as the whole class and reflect on their experiences 
on how and how much they have learnt (D2.4, SELS1.1, SELS1.3, V6.1, V10.3, LS1, CS2.15). This process is 
applied again for the other target grammatical structures in the theme if there are any. These activities are 
evaluated as described in items (5), (8) and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the 
English Curriculum.
SELECTION AND USE OF TARGET GRAMMATICAL ITEMS IN CONTEXT:  Students practise the use of the 
language including the target grammatical structures: The teacher asks the students to work on grammar 
tasks she/he assigns (D2.2, D2.3, V3.3, V3.4, CS2.13). These tasks could be the ones that the teacher 
provides. The teacher shows some other contents in the form of a dialogue, a short paragraph, a short story, 
etc. with sentences including the target grammar structures and asks the students to find the sentences 
with the target grammatical structures in them and asks if they understand them easily (D3.2, D3.7, D3.10, 
CS2.13, CS2.20, CS3.3). She/He facilitates some oral or written activities and exercises for the students to 
further practise the target grammatical structures in context in pairs or groups (SELS2.2). She/He also 
facilitates more fun activities and games in which students talk, act out, mime, write, etc. with pen and 
paper, digital, AI-based, etc. materials and contexts so that they can practise and consolidate the target 
grammatical structures by selecting and using them accurately, efficiently, and naturally in context (D2.5, 
D3.2, D3.3, SELS2.1, V4.2, V4.4, LS2, CS2.13). They engage in several dialogic activities in which they share 
information, ideas and thoughts for communicating with their classmates. They exchange information and 
ideas to others by using target grammatical content (D3.5, SELS2.2, V3.4) .When the session is over, the 
teacher asks the students to reflect on their ideas, thoughts, and feelings about the grammar discovery and 
use process. Students reflect on their experiences individually and share them with their classmates and the 
whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS1.3, V6.1, LS6,CS2.15). They also give feedback to each other (D2.1, D2.4, 
V4.2, V10.3, SELS2.2).This is evaluated as described in items (5), (8) and (9) in the section 1.2. Principles for 
the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG8.8.R1
PREPARING FOR READING:  The teacher facilitates reading activities throughout the theme “life in the 
universe and future”  from the first lesson to the end, when and where necessary with precise techniques and 
the necessary amount. Reading starts from earlier stages and continues throughout the theme in various 
forms and amounts as it is explained above (in the vocabulary section) in terms of how it is taught and when 
it needs to be clarified. Various reading styles such as silent reading, jigsaw reading and speed reading are 
used during the pre-reading, while-reading and post-reading phases. The ultimate aim of reading practice 
is to enhance comprehension, improve fluency, develop critical thinking skills and the ability to comprehend 
and talk about the current content and related issues in a meaningful way (V3.2, LS1, CS3.3) .Students are 
provided a new text(s) to practise their reading skills through the current theme. They look at the surrounding 
visual materials, the title of the text and other supportive elements to guess the topic of the new reading 
content and they make predictions to be checked after reading the text (D1.1, SELS3.1,V3.3, LS4, CS2.2, 
CS2.11, CS2.16.2).

===== PDF_PAGE_1108 =====
1108
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.8.R2
BRINGING INFORMATION TOGETHER THROUGH READING: Students read the new reading text carefully to 
check their predictions made in the preparation session at the beginning of the lesson (SELS1.2, V3.4, LS1, 
CS2.8). Then they read the text very quickly (scanning) to check the main components and categories with 
the help of visual elements such as pictures, symbols, drawings, illustrations that are provided by the teacher 
(V3.3,LS4, LS7, CS2.4, CS2.6). They compare the components they have found in the text with those written 
by the teacher on the smart board/whiteboard related to the sub-themes of “transport in the future; self-
driving cars; flying vehicles in the future”  (D3.6, V11.1, V16.2, LS2, LS5, CS2.7) .Students read the text very 
quickly to check that the main components correspond to the headings written by the teacher on the board 
and then they tick/circle/underline them on the list (already provided by the teacher) at their desks (V3.4, 
LS7, CS2.8).The teacher could use different versions of the scanning activities as described in the “listening/
watching- comprehension” section above. In this way, they can understand the text in general better with 
the help of scanning (CS2.16.1). They share the components with the whole class (SELS2.1) and then they 
discuss the accuracy of the results as a whole class  (D2.3, D3.6, SELS2.2, V4.2, LS1, CS2.8).
ENG8.8.R3.
MAKING MEANING THROUGH READING:  Students read the new text silently in pairs in a jigsaw reading 
activity as they have done in the vocabulary session earlier  (D3.2, SELS2.2,V4.1).During the reading session, 
they look out for new words whose meanings they do not know (if there are any, other than the target words 
previously covered in the listening/watching-comprehension and vocabulary recognition sessions) (CS2.6). 
They work on the new words in the same way as in the vocabulary sessions. Then they deal with the semantic 
meaning conveyed in the text through display questions, then semi-closed activities and then open-ended 
activities  (V3.3, V6.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.6).They deal with the meaning by using strategies from the closed to 
the open-ended range to understand the theme “life in the universe and future”  in terms of the sub-themes 
of “transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” mean from different perspectives to 
build their own understandings (D3.6, D3.8, SELS3.1, CS2.13). The teacher facilitates a number of activities to 
help the students improve their comprehension, synthesis and evaluation skills after applying the knowledge 
they have gained from the reading process (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, CS2.3, CS2.17, CS2.20).  After this stage, 
they work on activities to connect their knowledge and skills they have acquired about the current content 
with CLIL (history, maths, science, etc.) and cultural issues to be able to enrich their perspectives on the 
current theme (D3.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V11.1, V16.2, LS1, LS5, LS6,CS2.13, CS2.14) . In this way, they will have 
the opportunity to develop their knowledge and language competence through reading. They can have the 
opportunity to develop their cognitive, emotional, cultural, social, and creative skills through the process of 
reading (SELS3.3, V7.2, CS2.20).
ENG8.8.R4.
REFLECTING ON THE READING PROCESS: Students reflect on their thoughts, ideas and feelings in relation 
to the whole reading-comprehension process (SELS1.3). They talk about them individually and then share 
them with the whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3, SELS2.1,V4.2, CS2.15).After the reflection and feedback session, 
they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas (SELS1.2, SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1, 
LS1).
ENG8.8.W1.
PREPARATION FOR WRITING-EXPRESSION:  Students are facilitated throughout the theme with writing 
activities, from the first lesson to the last when and where necessary with precise techniques and the 
necessary amount of writing. At the beginning of the writing process, students recall their pre-existing 
knowledge about the current content to make a link between what they know and what they are going to 

===== PDF_PAGE_1109 =====
1109
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
write about (D3.2, SELS1.1, CS2.12).  This includes examining all the audio/visual sources and elements 
provided for understanding the writing task (V3.2,LS1, CS2.2).
ENG8.8.W2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL : Students listen (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the writing task they have been given (CS2.2). These are limited and short pieces of writing to see how the 
language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the written language, after 
hearing and seeing them through listening and reading activities in the theme “life in the universe and future”. 
Initially, they practise the language in a more controlled way, writing to repeat or simply explain what they 
have heard and seen and/ or what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they 
try to understand how the language is used in the target content by examining the model/example writing 
carefully (V3.4, LS2, LS5, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2). They try to understand and plan how they can convey the 
knowledge they have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in 
relation to current content in their later free writing tasks (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, LS1).
ENG8.8.W3.
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW WRITTEN CONTENT: After working on a sample/model writing task, students begin 
to produce/construct similar tasks of their own. They participate in several writing activities individually, in 
pairs, in groups and as a whole class (D2.3, SELS2.2,V4.1). Their products could range from writing a word 
to a phrase, a clause to a full sentence, a group of sentences to a short paragraph, an essay to a short story. 
These writing activities will help students to produce and display meaningful written language for personal 
expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language expressions in 
this theme as in others (SELS2.1, LS1, CS2.13).
ENG8.8.W4.
PRACTISING BY PRODUCING WRITTEN CONTENT: Students are encouraged to produce a variety of written 
products such as sentences, acronyms, paragraphs, messages, posters, e-mails, quotes, poems, songs, 
essays, diaries/journals, blogs, scripts for plays, documentaries, films, etc. to express their ideas, thoughts, 
and feelings in relation to the current topic (D1.5, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9, CS2.20).  They take part 
in individual or collaborative projects to improve their writing skills together with social, cultural, cognitive, 
and affective aspects (D1.4, SELS2.2, V3.4, V4.1, V4.2).Within this variety, they can find the opportunities to 
show how they can use the language that they have learnt to describe and comment on the current content 
for developing new ideas about them in different genres of writing, according to their potential needs for 
expressing themselves and communication with others (SELS3.2, SELS3.3, V11.1, V16.2, LS5, CS2.14, 
CS3.3). Storification and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further writing 
practice (D2.5,LS9).
ENG8.8.W5.
PROCESS WRITING: Controlled writing of words, sentences and paragraphs turns to process writing with 
the support of the teacher’s and also peers’ feedback in the theme. This process is expanded and supported 
with additional activities. New contexts in the form of written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video stories, 
dialogues, etc. for students to write responses, lines, parts, answers, scripts, etc. to practise further by 
writing with the language including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme in 
fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS2.2, SELS3.2, V3.4, V7.2, V7.3, LS9,CS2.13, CS2.14). All 
the content is formed as contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ interests, 
and language level. Students improve their writing after reviewing the feedback they receive and this spiral, 
cyclical, and ongoing work becomes a progressive path for students (D3.1, SELS1.2, V12.3, LS1, CS3.1).

===== PDF_PAGE_1110 =====
1110
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.8.W6.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH WRITING:  Students communicate their ideas, thoughts 
and feelings about the sub-themes of “transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future” 
through their writing tasks (V11.1, V16.2, CS3.3) . They can use AI-based technologies for various activities, 
by having access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital written materials and projects at 
school and at home in a variety of ways to interact and communicate with peers and/or other people inside 
and outside school by using the language including target words, language chunks, and the social language 
expressions for the relevant theme in their writing (D3.3, SELS2.3, V3.4, V4.2, V11.1, LS2, LS4, LS5, CS2.20).
All writing activities can be evaluated as described in items (3), (4), (5), (9), (10), (11) and (12) in the section 1.2. 
Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG8.8.W7.
REFLECTING THROUGH WRITING:  The teacher asks the students to reflect on their thoughts, ideas 
and feelings in relation to the whole writing-expression process (SELS1.3) and students talk about them 
individually and share them with the whole class (D1.2, D1.6, D2.3,SELS2.1, V4.2, CS2.15). After the reflection 
and feedback session, they revise their work by correcting their mistakes and improving their ideas (SELS1.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.3, V12.1,LS1).
SPEAKING-EXPRESSION
Practising through speaking from controlled to communicative stages: The teacher facilitates speaking 
activities throughout the theme from the first lesson to the last. Speaking activities support students’ 
learning and help them to produce meaningful language for personal expression and communication with 
others, by using the language including the target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions of the theme (V3.4, V4.5, LS1, LS5).
ENG8.8.S1.
PREPARATION FOR SPEAKING : In the beginning, students recall their background knowledge about the 
theme through listening/watching and/or reading and then they talk about it (SELS1.1, CS2.12).  Students 
practise the target language items in a controlled way, by saying, repeating, explaining what they hear and 
see in the context, for instance, in the introductory digital story and the listening and reading sections in 
different contexts (SELS3.2). Then they can expand their language use and practice in each section by 
increasing the amount of speaking they do (D1.3, V3.4, LS1, CS2.13).
ENG8.8.S2.
ANALYSING AND UNDERSTANDING THE MODEL:  Students listen (to)/watch and/or read some models of 
the speaking task they have been given (CS2.2). These are limited and short pieces of speaking to see how 
the language, including the target vocabulary and grammatical structures, is used in the spoken language, 
after hearing them through listening activities in the theme. Initially, they practise the language in a more 
controlled way, repeating some utterances, simply explaining what they have heard and seen, and/or 
what they are asked to do about the target theme in context. At this stage, they try to understand how 
the language is used in the target content by examining the speaking model/example carefully (V3.3, V11.1, 
V16.2, LS1, CS2.4, CS2.19, CS3.2).They try to understand and plan how they can convey the knowledge they 
have gained throughout the theme, the thoughts, ideas, and feelings they have developed in relation to the 
current theme in their later free speaking tasks (D3.6, SELS1.2, V3.2, V3.4, LS5).

===== PDF_PAGE_1111 =====
1111
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
ENG8.8.S3.
PRODUCTION OF MEANINGFUL AND ACCURATE CONTENT:  In the later stages of the lessons, the teacher 
prepares new contexts for the students in the form of new written/photo-picture strip/pantomime/video 
stories, dialogues, etc. as new opportunities to practise further by seeing/hearing/reading the language 
including the target words and grammatical structures related to the theme “life in the universe and future”  
in fun, enjoyable, varied, and versatile activities (SELS3.2, V7.2, LS9) .These newly created contents are 
contextual, practical, authentic, real, and appropriate to the students’ age, interests, and language level. 
They participate in such speaking activities individually, in pairs, in groups and as a whole class (D3.2, 
SELS2.2, V4.2, CS2.20).
ENG8.8.S4.
CONSTRUCTING MEANINGFUL SPOKEN CONTENT:  Students produce various spoken content and their 
products could range from producing a simple utterance including a word to a phrase, a clause to a full 
sentence, a group of sentences to a short speech, a dialogue to a spoken presentation (SELS3.3, V3.4, 
CS2.20).These speaking activities will help students to produce accurate and meaningful spoken language 
for personal expression by selecting and using target words, grammatical structures and social language 
expressions in this theme  “life in the universe and future” as in others (D3.6, SELS2.1, CS2.13).
ENG8.8.S5.
RECONSTRUCTING/COMMUNICATING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Collaborative and communicative activities 
are designed and used to revise and consolidate the whole theme “life in the universe and future” on the sub-
themes of “transport in the future; self-driving cars; flying vehicles in the future”  (V4.5, LS5, CS2.13, CS2.14).
Storification, drama, and gamification techniques are actively and extensively used for further speaking 
practice throughout the theme (SELS2.1, SELS2.2, V4.1, V4.2, LS4, LS9). Students are encouraged to 
produce several spoken products related to the extended contexts such as dialogues, speeches, short texts, 
presentations, etc. to interact and to communicate with peers and/or other people inside and/or outside the 
school by using the language including the target words, language chunks, and social language expressions 
for the current theme (SELS2.3, V3.4, V7.1, V7.2, LS1, CS2.20). AI-based technologies can be used for 
various activities, giving students access to authentic materials. They can also produce digital materials and 
projects for speaking at school and at home through recordings (D3.3, SELS3.1, SELS3.2, V7.3, V11.1, LS2). 
All these speaking activities can be evaluated as described in items (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), (9), (10), and (11) in 
the section 1.2. Principles for the Implementation of the English Curriculum.
ENG8.8.S6.
REFLECTING THROUGH SPEAKING:  Students are encouraged to reflect individually or collaboratively in 
groups on their own individual learning (SELS1.3) or on their collaborative learning in pairs, groups or as a 
whole class collaboratively (D2.3, SELS2.2, CS2.15).  The activities will help and support students in these 
feedback and reflection sessions. Their feedback is shared with peers and the teacher and takes the form 
of interactive and ongoing feedback that can help their own improvement (SELS1.2, SELS2.1) and also they 
contribute to the improvement of their peers in their learning processes (V4.1, V4.3,V12.1, V12.3, LS1).

===== PDF_PAGE_1112 =====
1112
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
DIFFERENTIATION
Expansion
Objective: To practise the language to solve problems and make decisions related to a space mission in 
English by using the target vocabulary and grammar.
Activity 1: Space Mission: Decision Time
The teacher informs the students that they are part of a space crew heading to Mars. Along the way, they 
face several challenges and must decide what to do using the first conditional. She/He divides the class into 
groups of 4-5 and assigns each student a role (Commander, Engineer, Scientist) and provides each role with 
specific expertise. (Engineer: Deals with technical problems/ Scientist: Evaluates the impact on research/
Astronaut: Ensures safety and well-being). Then, the teacher gives each group a problem card and tells 
students that they have 3-5 minutes to discuss solutions using the first conditional. (Example problems: The 
solar panels are damaged /An oxygen tank is leaking). When the time is up each group shares their decision 
with the class. All members must justify their suggestions using the first conditional. Example solution: 
Commander: “We decided to fix the solar panels immediately”. Engineer: “If we repair the panels now, we’ll 
have enough power for the rest of the mission”. As a follow-up activity, students record a voice note as an 
astronaut reporting to mission control, explaining the challenges they faced and their decisions using the 
first conditional. Students reflect on their thoughts and feelings about the activity.
Supporting
Objective: To practise the language to solve problems and make decisions related to a space mission in 
English by using the target vocabulary and grammar.
Activity 1: Space Mission: Decision Time
The teacher tells students they are part of a space crew heading to Mars. Along the way, they face several 
problems and must decide what to do using the first conditional. She/He divides the class into groups of 
4-5 and assigns each student a role (commander, engineer, scientist) and provides each role with a problem 
card with simplified vocabulary and visuals. (Example problem card: Problem: “The rocket is running out of 
fuel”. Support Prompts: If we ……., we …… the mission. Provide a choice of solutions on the card to guide 
responses, e.g., “We can find extra fuel. /Turn back to Earth”. Then, the teacher tells students that they have 
3-5 minutes to discuss solutions using the first conditional. When the time is up each group shares their 
decision with the class. All members must justify their suggestions using the first conditional. Each group 
receives feedback from peers and the teacher on their use of vocabulary and grammar. Each student writes 
a short reflection on what they liked and enjoyed in today’s lesson. Students reflect on their thoughts and 
feelings about the activity.
TEACHER REFLECTIONS
FOR MORE TEACHER REFLECTIONS SCAN THE QR CODE. 

===== PDF_PAGE_1113 =====


===== PDF_PAGE_1114 =====
1114
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CURRICULUM
